            AEF-1: Minimum Operating Conditions for
             Independent Third Party AI Evaluations


 Conrad Stosz1∗ Karson Elmgren1 Charles Foster2 George Balston3 Seth Donoughe4
        Samira Nedungadi4 Michael Chen2 Jasper Götting4 Sayash Kapoor5
    Sarah Schwettmann1,6 Rishi Bommasani1,7 Luca Righetti2,8 Sean McGregor3
        Grace Werner3 Rob Reich1,7 Arvind Narayanan5 Elizabeth Barnes2
    Christopher Painter2 Miles Brundage3 Aidan Homewood8 Divya Siddharth9
                 Faisal Lalani9 Jaime Sevilla10 Jacob Steinhardt1,11
        1
         Transluce 2 METR 3 AI Verification and Evaluation Research Institute 4 SecureBio
 5
     Princeton University 6 Massachusetts Institute of Technology 7 Stanford University 8 GovAI
                    9
                      Collective Intelligence Project 10 Epoch AI 11 UC Berkeley


                                                Abstract

            Independent third-party evaluations of AI systems are becoming increasingly cen-
            tral to AI governance approaches pursued by developers, governments, enterprises,
            and the public. However, the operating conditions of third-party evaluations can
            be opaque, even though they can significantly impact whether an evaluation is
            trustworthy and impartial. In particular, it can be challenging to understand whether
            an evaluator had sufficient access to assess the characteristics of interest, whether
            they enjoyed meaningful independence, and how transparently they shared their
            methods and findings. To address this, we present AEF-1, a standard and check-
            list that third-party evaluators can use to demonstrate how they achieved a set of
            operating conditions that support a baseline level of independence, access, and
            transparency during an evaluation.


1      Introduction
As AI systems become increasingly capable and widely deployed, there is a growing need for
trustworthy, independent evaluations of their capabilities and risks [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]. AI evaluations
are used for a range of purposes by multiple stakeholders, including AI providers evaluating their own
systems as a routine part of development [8, 2]. But when customers, regulators, or the public demand
high confidence in results, such as when evaluating risks to public safety, independent third parties
can provide additional perspectives and approaches to evaluation and avoid the inherent conflicts of
interests posed when AI providers evaluate themselves [9, 10, 6, 11].
The trustworthiness of an independent evaluation is the product of many distinct factors, including
both technical and operational considerations. In particular, the unsettled science of AI evaluation
is the subject of considerable ongoing work, not covered in this document [12, 13, 14, 15]. But the
trustworthiness of a third-party evaluation is also significantly affected by the operational conditions
under which it was carried out. This includes how much independence a third-party evaluator enjoyed
in practice, whether they had sufficient access to the target system, and whether the evaluation was
transparent enough to interpret its results accurately [16].
The independence of third-party evaluators is likewise affected affected by a range of factors, such as
the extent to which the evaluator is organizationally controlled by or financially dependent upon the
AI provider [17, 18]. These factors can be specific to a particular evaluation, such as if a provider
narrowly constrains what methods the evaluator can use. Independence can also be affected by other

Direct correspondence to Conrad Stosz: conrad@transluce.org
relationships beyond that between the evaluator and provider, such as ties between an evaluator and
the provider’s direct competitors [19, 18]. Assessing independence therefore requires information
about a range of the evaluator’s relationships and their dynamics, beyond just whether or not an
evaluation was carried out by a third party [16].
AI developers often limit access to their systems, constraining how independent third-parties can
evaluate them. Even well-intentioned commercial providers face tradeoffs between preserving
evaluators’ methodological freedom and protecting their trade secrets and their users’ privacy [18].
The necessary level of access is complex and dependent on evolving evaluation methods, with deeper
access sometimes affording more reliable and accurate results [20, 21]. For example, methods to
directly interpret a model’s internal activations are improving over time, but third-party evaluators are
generally constrained in practice from using these methods on closed-weight models because of the
commercially sensitive nature of accessing these models’ internals [21].
Transparency about independent evaluations can help facilitate greater trust [22], both by sharing
information about independence and access, but also by helping to ensure that the technical methods
and results of the evaluation can be interpreted accurately [16, 21]. This could include for instance
ensuring that both positive and negative results are reported consistently and that they are not withheld
to conceal poor performance. Methodological transparency can also support scientific rigor, including
by aiding replicability and accurate interpretation of results, as well as allowing other third parties to
contest or improve upon the evaluation’s approach [23, 24, 15, 18].
Done right, independent evaluations can provide a much higher degree of trust in results and can
help incentivize market-wide improvements in AI systems. Indeed, such evaluations have become
central to AI governance efforts, including with their integration into many AI developers’ frontier
AI risk frameworks [25], system documentation [26, 27, 28], and voluntary commitments [29, 30].
A range of third-party leaderboards, evaluation reports, and other products have helped deliver on
these commitments and fill broader commercial demand for independent evaluation results, covering
a broad range of topics like general user preferences for chatbots [31], child safety [32], national
security [33], and environmental impact [34]. Governments too have relied heavily on independent
evaluations as a core component of their approach to AI risk, including through government testing
authorities in the United States [35], United Kingdom [36], the European Union [37], and China [38],
as well as the International Network of AI Safety Institutes [39].



2   Scope

This document establishes an initial voluntary standard that evaluators can use to demonstrate how
they achieved a baseline set of operating conditions for the independence, access, and transparency
of a particular third-party evaluation.
The standard does not cover all aspects of third-party AI evaluation. In particular, it does not address
the many critical methodological considerations for conducting scientifically valid AI evaluations [3],
nor does it exhaustively cover evaluators’ various responsibilities towards system providers, such as
responsibilities to act in good faith and avoid causing harm while conducting an evaluation.
This standard also does not apply to all third-party AI evaluations, which can take many forms and
apply to many contexts, including those where factors like independence and transparency are less
critical. For example, exploratory research collaborations often require less independence, more
flexibility, and closer integration between AI providers and evaluators.
This document focuses specifically on evaluations where third parties maintain the freedom to define
the evaluation’s methodology to maximize the robustness and independence of the evaluation, as
opposed to third parties simply validating, replicating, or supporting the execution of a provider’s
own evaluation [2, 6]. This distinction is sometimes similarly referred to as the difference between an
“independent audit” versus narrower assessment approaches like “verification” or “validation”, which
may be a component of a third party assessment, but that generally assess a system’s characteristics in
the terms set by its developer. Independent validation of a provider’s own methods can help increase
trust in the relevant results, but given its limited scope and restricted methodology, it represents a
lower standard of independence than that covered in this document.


                                                    2
                By complying with this document, AI developers and third-party evaluators help demonstrate that a
                particular third-party evaluation reached a level of independence, access, and transparency that may
                be demanded in particularly sensitive contexts, such as when an evaluation is used to:
                         1. Establish that a system provider has adequately addressed risks of acute public concern,
                         2. Satisfy regulatory mandates for independent third party evaluations or audits, such as
                            requirements to test for system safety, national security risks, or a system’s suitability for
                            regulated use cases,
                         3. Serve as a significant basis for critical internal governance decisions that concern public
                            interest or well-being, such as whether and how a provider should release an AI system that
                            may pose novel risks, or
                         4. Guide high-risk AI procurement decisions, such as whether a system performs adequately
                            to be used in a safety-critical context.

                3        Implementation
                The minimum operating conditions in this document are organized into five core principles, each
                accompanied by a series of specific outcomes that are either required to achieve that principle and
                fulfill the standard, or are recommended across many circumstances, but do not necessarily apply in
                all cases. In summary, to comply with this standard, they should have:
                         1. Sufficient Access and Resources
                         2. Minimized Conflicts of Interest
                         3. Analytic Autonomy
                         4. Transparent Methods and Results
                         5. Protection of Sensitive Information
                Third-party evaluators should demonstrate adherence to this standard by filling out the corresponding
                checklist (Appendix A) and including it alongside the evaluation results, such as in publications
                detailing an evaluation or in a report to governance bodies.1 For any requirement in the checklist that
                cannot be fulfilled literally, justification should be provided for how the system provider and evaluator
                were able to achieve the same principle via alternative means. For evaluations that do not meet all of
                the requirements in Appendix A, third party evaluators can still use the checklist to document the
                relevant conditions of the evaluation, which specific requirements were not met, and why.

                4        Minimum Operating Conditions
                Version 1, updated December 4, 2025.

                                           1: Sufficient Access and Resources
                    Rationale: Third-party evaluators must secure access to the right systems and information from
                    system providers if they are to conduct a thorough, trustworthy evaluation. Evaluation results also
                    often rely heavily on how much the evaluators are able to interact with the evaluated systems, as
                    well as the time, resources, and tools they can apply in the evaluation.


1.1 Technical   Requirement: The evaluator secured sufficient technical access to assess the specific system
Access          characteristics being evaluated.

                Different evaluations may require different levels of access, which may include the follow-
                ing items, among others:
                     1
                     In particular, the checklist could be used by developers to report details of third-party evaluations per the stip-
                ulations of the EU AI Act Code of Practice Safety & Security Chapter Measure 7.3(1)(g) and California’s Senate
                Bill 53 22757.12.(c)(2)(C). See https://code-of-practice.ai/?section=safety-security#measure-7-3-documentation-
                of-systemic-risk-identification-analysis-and-mitigation and https://legiscan.com/CA/text/SB53/id/3270002


                                                                           3
                        1. Query access. At a minimum, evaluators must have open-ended black-box access (via a web
                           UI, an API or both, depending on the requirements of the evaluation) that provides timely
                           and flexible queries.2
                        2. Scaffolding. Models are generally deployed and used with accompanying tools, safeguards,
                           and other configurations that will be in place for a realistic end user. This scaffolding
                           meaningfully changes a model’s performance and properties in the expected deployment
                           context, requiring that the evaluator have access to the expected scaffolding to conduct a
                           realistic, externally valid evaluation.
                        3. Safeguard exemptions. Providers should consider disabling, removing, or minimizing any
                           technical safeguards that would unduly hinder evaluators from producing trustworthy results
                           for the evaluation in question. For example, reliably evaluating the worst-case scenarios
                           for misuse of dangerous capabilities generally requires access to a model version where
                           mitigations that might reduce these capabilities are minimized.3
                        4. Intermediate system states. Intermediate system states like model activations and reasoning
                           traces are often important to produce trustworthy evaluation results, particularly when exam-
                           ining how models arrive at final conclusions, such as evaluating for evaluation awareness or
                           scheming. Such access can involve just observing such states, but some evaluation methods
                           may also require being able to directly modify them, such as to establish their causality or
                           investigate mitigations that rely on such modifications.
                        5. Finetuning. For cases where the use case or threat model involves users with the ability to
                           finetune the model, evaluators would need access to a similar ability to conduct a trustworthy
                           evaluation.
                        6. Model weights. Particularly when evaluating a model whose weights are or will be shared
                           externally, ensuring that the evaluator also has access to these weights helps to ensure the
                           results’ validity to the deployment context.
                        7. Other tools. System providers should provide access to other tools which are necessary to
                           elicit realistic deployment conditions or otherwise ensure external validity.
                        8. User data. While often exceptionally sensitive and generally requiring careful legal, security,
                           and privacy guardrails, considering a provider’s user data can help ground evaluations
                           in realistic deployment conditions, such as determining whether a particular behavior of
                           concern observed in testing has also occurred in production.



1.2 Information   Recommendation: The system provider shared with the evaluator information relevant to
                  carrying out a trustworthy and useful evaluation.

                  Depending on the context, relevant information may include, among others:

                        1. At a minimum, clear identification of the systems and specific versions being tested.
                        2. Details of the model’s intended behavior (such as the model specification and system
                           prompt).
                        3. Information about the training process and data (including test sets).
                        4. Information necessary for fully eliciting the model’s capabilities.
                        5. Preexisting internal evaluation results that might inform the evaluator’s approach.
                        6. Factors expected to contribute to how well the evaluation would generalize from the evalua-
                           tion context to the deployment context.

                      2
                        Besides being more time-efficient and convenient than chat access in most cases, API access is necessary
                  for some important kinds of evaluations, such as evaluating a model by deploying it in an agent scaffold.
                      3
                        However, this may not be practical for all categories of misuse, some of which are illegal and/or harmful
                  even in the context of evaluation, such as generating child sexual abuse material, violating the privacy of real
                  individuals, or simulating dangerous activities closely enough to cause real-world harm. Instead, other methods
                  like safe proxies should be used to evaluate these cases responsibly.


                                                                         4
                       7. Information on relevant patterns of real-world usage, such as about known performance
                          patterns or instances of relevant misuse.4
                       8. Knowledge related to the system’s propensity to produce misleading results, such as through
                          reward hacking or contamination.
                       9. Knowledge of system vulnerabilities or other security issues that might, for instance, allow
                          attackers to bypass system safeguards or degrade system performance.
                      10. Information that might contradict the evaluation result.



1.3               Requirement: The evaluator had access to sufficient computational resources to complete a
Computational     thorough evaluation.
Resources
                  This might include, for example:

                        1. Multiple evaluation runs to ensure statistical robustness by accounting for sampling variance.
                        2. Exploratory probing to investigate issues related to the target characteristic to produce a
                           thorough evaluation.
                        3. Sufficient query and token limits to elicit high performance from the model.


1.4 Time          Requirement: The evaluator had adequate time to carry out a thorough evaluation.

                  Time allotted to evaluations should generally be proportionate to confidence needed in the
                  results as well as the degree of novelty of the system, in terms of its capabilities, structure,
                  or otherwise. It should also account for the expected speed of evaluation given the type of
                  access and evaluation methods used.5 Based on prior industry experience, at least 20 business
                  days are often necessary to carry out the various stages of evaluations when assessing substan-
                  tially novel systems or system characteristics, and possibly more depending on the type of evaluation.6

                  Where the evaluator explicitly agrees to a timeline with the provider, it should:

                        1. Be set sufficiently in advance to allow the evaluator to plan business operations for the
                           evaluation.
                        2. Allow for evaluators to carry out each necessary evaluation stage, such as to debug sys-
                           tem access, design an appropriate evaluation, carry it out, analyze the results, and make
                           adjustments as necessary.
                        3. Allow the provider time to consider and act on feedback from the evaluator before any major
                           resulting decisions are made, such as a decision whether or not to release the system.



1.5 Safe harbor   Recommendation: The system provider provided legal safe harbor for actions by the evaluator
                  that are within the agreed-upon scope of the evaluation.


                      4
                        For example, OpenAI provided METR several assurances for their evaluation of GPT-5, detailed here:
                  https://evaluations.metr.org/gpt-5-report/#assurance-checklist-summary
                      5
                        For example, evaluations conducted manually through a web UI tend to be slower than those conducted
                  through an API.
                      6
                        This aligns with the EU CoP Safety & Security Chapter Appendix 3.4 sug-
                  gestion of at least 20 business days for most systemic risks and model evalu-
                  ation        methods,         see      https://code-of-practice.ai/?section=safety-security#
                  appendix-3-4-qualified-model-evaluation-teams-and-adequate-resources. As one exam-
                  ple precedent, METR’s evaluation of GPT-5 took three weeks, see https://evaluations.metr.org/
                  gpt-5-report/#metr%E2%80%99s-access-to-gpt-5


                                                                     5
                 In some evaluations, default legal agreements such as a system provider’s standard terms of
                 service may be sufficient to satisfy this criteria. In others, such as adversarial testing to bypass a
                 system’s safeguards against misuse, the provider may need to waive certain terms of service or other
                 legal rights to permit the evaluator’s actions. In all cases, evaluators must be able to operate under the
                 expectation that they can carry out an agreed-upon evaluation thoroughly and in good faith, without
                 fear of adverse legal action for doing so, in particular to prevent any threat of retaliation over the
                 content or presentation of the results.



                                            2: Minimized Conflicts of Interest
                  Rationale: If an evaluator faces a financial incentive or related pressures to produce findings
                  that are not accurate or that are not reasonably complete, that is a conflict of interest that can
                  undermine both independent judgment and external trust. The appearance of a conflict of interest,
                  or appearing to conceal one, can also degrade external trust, regardless of whether the individuals
                  involved feel themselves to be conflicted. As a result, it is important for organizations to both take
                  concrete steps to ensure they have minimized conflicts, as well as to provide broader transparency
                  about their relationships.


2.1 Contingent   Requirement: The evaluator did not receive compensation contingent on the results of the
compensation     evaluation.

2.2              Requirement: The system provider did not exercise organizational or financial control over the
Organizational   evaluator.
control
                 This includes ensuring at least the following conditions, among others:
                       1. The system provider does not own either voting shares or a large proportion of shares overall
                          in the evaluator organization.
                       2. The system provider does not control any of the evaluator’s board seats.


2.3 CoI policy   Requirement: The evaluator has published a conflict of interest policy, and it was applied to
                 the evaluation.

                 Such policies should generally cover at least:
                       1. The organization’s reporting requirements for factors that could reasonably contribute to a
                          conflict of interest.
                       2. The circumstances under which individuals, subcontractors, or other entities involved in
                          the evaluation would be recused from involvement in the evaluation to avoid conflicts of
                          interest.
                       3. Any restrictions on funding or payment received from relevant system providers.


2.4 CoI          Requirement: The evaluator clearly disclosed potential conflicts of interest relevant to the
disclosure       evaluation.

                 To ensure adequate transparency into potential conflicts of interest, the evaluator must make
                 disclosures at least in the following circumstances, among others:7
                       1. The evaluator was paid by the system provider or its direct competitors to conduct the
                          evaluation.
                    7
                      These categories of conflicts of interest are broadly similar to those in regulations on credit rating agencies
                 and financial auditing. See: https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/17/240.17g-5 and https://
                 pcaobus.org/oversight/standards/ethics-independence-rules/details/ET101


                                                                          6
                        2. A meaningful fraction of the evaluator’s funding (either revenue or donations) comes from a
                           system provider, its employees, or its direct competitors.
                        3. The system provider, its employees, or its direct competitors own equity in the evaluator
                           organization.
                        4. Evaluator staff who carried out the evaluation own equity in the system provider or its direct
                           competitors.
                        5. Individuals working on the evaluation also work for the system provider or its direct com-
                           petitors, based on belonging to both the groups defined below in (a) and (b) simultaneously:
                            (a) Individuals involved with the evaluation include staff working on the evaluation, their
                                management chain, or any others with influence over the methods, design, execution,
                                review, approval, or presentation of the evaluation and its results.
                            (b) Individuals working for a system provider include any who serve as an employee,
                                contractor, board member, or advisor to a system provider (this does not include those
                                working for the evaluator as part of a contract for the evaluation in question).

                 These disclosures should be included when the evaluator disseminates the evaluation results to other
                 organizations, including via private reports or public release.


2.5 Recusals     Requirement: The evaluator recused any individuals with a significant financial interest in the
                 system provider from carrying out the evaluation.

                 Recused staff must not define or carry out evaluations of the provider’s system(s) or mod-
                 ify or approve relevant findings. At a minimum, individuals must recuse themselves if they hold
                 direct equity in an evaluated system provider, either personally or through a spouse, spousal
                 equivalent, or dependent.8

                 However, this does not include:

                        1. Staff with only indirect holdings in the system provider which are not directly managed by
                           the individual, such as through an index or mutual fund.
                        2. Staff whose involvement is limited to support services, such as providing logistical support
                           or helping to implement infrastructure or tools, provided these activities are directly and
                           effectively overseen by qualified leadership who have transparency into the relevant financial
                           interests.



2.6 Agreements   Recommendation: The evaluator disclosed any separate agreements with the system provider
                 that significantly impact the independence and trustworthiness of the evaluation.

                 Such disclosure should cover at least the nature of the agreements and how they could im-
                 pact the evaluation. These disclosures should be included in any documentation produced by the
                 evaluator for dissemination to other organizations, including publications as well as private reports to
                 the organizational board or government bodies.



                                                    3: Analytic Autonomy
                  Rationale: To maximize the robustness and independence of an evaluation, third-party evaluators
                  must control the methodology–which heavily impacts results and how trustworthy they are–as
                  well as retaining the ability to present their results accurately and free from undue influence from
                  system providers.


                    8
                      In line with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s definition of an "immediate family member",
3.1 Scoping      see https://pcaobus.org/about/rules-rulemaking/rules/section_3#rule3501


                                                                      7
                 Recommendation: The evaluator retained flexibility to define which specific properties of the
                 system to evaluate.

                 Scoping evaluations too narrowly can undermine trustworthiness by limiting the evaluation
                 to misrepresentative subcategories of a broader system characteristic, such as an evaluation that
                 claims to target mental health risks broadly but that only examines suicidal ideation and ignores
                 other risks like eating disorders and violent behavior. Narrow scope can also exclude overlapping
                 system behaviors that may significantly contribute to that characteristic, such as a system’s general
                 sycophancy contributing to specific negative mental health outcomes.

                 Even in cases where system providers and evaluators agree to scope an evaluation to a gen-
                 eral category, evaluators should retain flexibility where possible to define which subcategories are
                 most meaningful to evaluate and which related properties are necessary to usefully characterize the
                 agreed upon category. As this may become clear only during the course of an evaluation, evaluators
                 should retain the ability to adjust their focus along these lines throughout the evaluation.


3.2 Evaluation   Requirement: The evaluator had autonomy in deciding the methods of the evaluation.
autonomy
                 This includes at least the following specific methodological characteristics, among others:
                       1. Determining the appropriate metrics, including summary statistics and sampling strategies,
                          such as best of N, pass@k, etc.
                       2. How to best elicit the target properties, such as defining the inputs used to prompt the system,
                          deciding how to scaffold agents, what tools to provide them, and if and how jailbreaking is
                          necessary.
                       3. Defining task completion, scoring rubrics, and other definitions of success or failure.


3.3 Direct       Recommendation: The evaluator ran the evaluations themselves via direct system access.
access
                 Evaluators should generally maintain direct technical control of the evaluation, rather than
                 relying on staff of the system provider to serve as intermediaries. However, this condition may not
                 always be justified, especially for evaluation methods dealing with highly sensitive types of access,
                 such as those that involve production user data or direct access to proprietary model weights. In
                 such cases evaluators may also seek other ways to validate that their evaluations are carried out
                 consistent with their intent and without undermining the evaluation’s integrity, such as contractual
                 guarantees that providers will not use their methods other than to carry out evaluation activities on
                 the evaluator’s behalf.


3.4 Editorial    Requirement: The evaluator retained editorial control over how they present the results of
control          their evaluation.

                 This editorial control must apply whenever the evaluator discloses its results to any given
                 audience, and it must include at least freedom to decide the following elements, among others:
                       1. Determining how to characterize what they evaluated and how.
                       2. Describing the system’s observed performance as well as supporting evidence such as scores,
                          capability levels, failure modes, specific input and output examples, and any other relevant
                          facts.
                       3. Describing how the results appear to relate to relevant red-lines or rule-out thresholds.
                       4. How to make baseline comparisons, such as to human, random, and marginal risk references.
                       5. Commenting on what was in and out of scope for the evaluation, and what conclusions can
                          and cannot be drawn from the evaluation given its scope.
                       6. Describing how any lack of access to relevant systems or information limits the conclusions
                          that can be drawn from the evaluation.


                                                                    8
                       7. Describing the general nature of any redactions or other limitations on sharing information
                          about the evaluation due to its sensitivity.

                 However, the system provider and other relevant third parties can and should inform the evaluation,
                 provide feedback on results, and present their own dissenting views where necessary. Note also
                 that satisfying this condition does not mean that system providers are prohibited from protecting
                 confidential information shared with the evaluator, nor does it prevent evaluators and system providers
                 from agreeing to limit disclosure only to specific audiences (e.g., for evaluations of non-public
                 systems).



                                       4: Transparent Methods and Results
                  Rationale: For evaluations to serve their purpose in informing governance, their results must
                  not be misrepresented, unduly delayed, or selectively withheld depending on the findings, and
                  they must be provided in sufficient detail to demonstrate their scientific validity and to enable
                  replicability and critique.


4.1              Requirement: The evaluator shared sufficient methodological details to allow for independent
Methodological   review of the results.
transparency
                 Evaluators should disclose alongside their results enough details that their methodological
                 approach and results can be scrutinized by external parties, ideally allowing for direct replication
                 of results. Evaluators are permitted to withhold testing datasets to maintain the integrity of their
                 evaluations, but should release representative examples of the data used in the evaluation at a
                 minimum. Evaluators should also limit disclosure of information hazards that would cause harm if
                 disclosed, such as specific methods to generate child sexual abuse material or produce dangerous
                 materials, in line with a responsible disclosure policy as described in item 5.4.


4.2 Disclosure   Recommendation: The system provider granted upfront any necessary rights to disclose results
rights           to the evaluation’s intended audiences.

                 Doing so will help to avoid the appearance or reality that disclosure is contingent on re-
                 sults being favorable.

                 For evaluations of risk, target audiences should generally include at least the relevant staff
                 or affiliates of the system provider charged with governance (e.g., the provider’s board of directors
                 and/or any safety board) and any recipients mandated by applicable regulations.

                 When evaluating a system before it is widely released, evaluators and providers should con-
                 sider agreeing upfront if and how the evaluation results will be released once the system is
                 released. This might include, for instance, defining any necessary caveats to communicate differ-
                 ences between the version of the model that was evaluated and the version that was ultimately released.

                 When evaluating public systems via publicly available access methods, evaluators will most
                 often have broad freedom to disclose results by default, with no action necessary to satisfy this
                 recommendation.


4.3 No           Recommendation: The intended audiences for an evaluation were not narrowed based on the
contingent       results.
release
                 The system provider should not withhold results from intended audiences, even if they indi-
                 cate poor performance, unmitigated risks, or other concerning findings. Any expected disclosure to
                 the system provider’s relevant internal governance bodies should also proceed regardless of whether



                                                                   9
                 an evaluated model is ultimately deployed.

                 The above does not apply when disclosure is withheld specifically to follow pre-defined
                 responsible disclosure practices as described in condition 5.4.


4.4 No misrepre- Recommendation: The system provider did not misrepresent the evaluation’s findings.
sentation
                 This includes at least the following forms of misrepresentation, among others:

                       1. Directly misstating what the evaluator found. However, evaluators should not seek to
                          constrain others from disagreeing with their methodology or findings.
                       2. Using the fact of the evaluation, or partial results of the evaluation, as evidence of a system’s
                          capabilities or risks without making the full scope of the methodology and results available
                          to the same audience.

                 To help avoid misrepresentation, system providers should generally allow evaluators to review
                 representations of the evaluation, especially for use in prominent publications and other impactful
                 disclosures.


4.5 Timely       Recommendation: The system provider or other external parties did not unduly delay the
disclosure       evaluation from being disclosed based on the content of the results.

                 Disclosure of the evaluation should not be subject to delay by the system provider or other
                 external parties based on the content of the findings, except to follow pre-defined responsible
                 disclosure practices as described in condition 5.4, which may delay sharing of particular risks and
                 vulnerabilities.

                 Agreements to delay disclosure for reasons other than the content of the results may also
                 be appropriate, such as to provide the system provider advanced notice of publication or to avoid
                 public release of results on an unreleased system until it is released.


4.6 Redactions   Requirement: The system provider did not have authority to redact results to conceal
                 concerning findings.

                 Any authority that is granted to the system provider or another external party to review the
                 results of an evaluation and redact sensitive information from it or block reporting altogether as
                 a result must only be used as is necessary to protect privacy, ethical restrictions, trade secrets, or
                 information hazards, or to ensure factual accuracy about the terms of the agreement or the provider’s
                 actions. It must not be used not to conceal general poor performance, unmitigated system issues,
                 or other concerning findings or to prevent results from being shared based on disagreements over
                 how to interpret them. Disclosure of system vulnerabilities should be governed by a responsible
                 disclosure policy, as described in condition 5.4.


4.7 Redaction    Recommendation: The evaluator clearly disclosed the redaction authorities granted to the
disclaimer       system provider or other external entities.

                 In particular, any authorities granted to the system provider or other external parties to edit
                 or redact information from the evaluator’s publications should be noted in a disclaimer on the
                 publication. This disclaimer should always be included, and it should specify whether the authorities
                 were exercised or not, as well as describing what was redacted and why where possible. The evaluator
                 should also retain the ability to comment on the appropriateness of redactions and how material they
                 are to understanding the evaluation.



                                                                    10
                                         5: Protection of Sensitive Information
                   Rationale: Both system providers and evaluators possess significant sensitive information, in-
                   cluding intellectual property and potentially hazardous information, improper disclosure of which
                   could harm their own and/or public interests. Adequately protecting sensitive information shared
                   or obtained in the course of an evaluation is therefore both an ethical responsibility, as well as a
                   practical precondition for third parties to maintain the integrity of their evaluation methods and to
                   maintain sufficient system access to be able to carry out meaningful evaluations.


5.1 Publication   Requirement: The evaluator had the system provider’s permission prior to releasing any
terms             results based on non-public information or systems.

                  Where evaluations are based only on information and access that is publicly available, such
                  as when using a publicly-released model under its general terms of service, evaluators often need
                  not consult with the system provider regarding publication, except for instance where evaluation
                  methods reveal particularly sensitive information, such as extracting sensitive personally identifiable
                  information, or else system vulnerabilities that should be responsibly disclosed, as described in
                  condition 5.4.


5.2 Evaluation    Recommendation: The evaluations methods were not gamed or leaked.
integrity
                  To prevent this, evaluators and system providers should do at least the following, among
                  others:

                         1. The evaluator should minimize how much information they share that the system provider
                            might foreseeably use to game their evaluations.
                         2. The system provider should protect the confidential information they receive for the purposes
                            of the evaluation.
                         3. The system provider should agree not to view, retain, share, use, or train on system inter-
                            actions that include held out evaluation data (e.g., transcripts, prompts, or answer keys),
                            except with written consent from the evaluator (e.g., for refusal training).9
                         4. The system provider should make a good-faith attempt to provide their system in a manner
                            that will provide accurate results, including aligning the evaluated version of the system to
                            real-world deployments, except where differences are disclosed to the developer and are
                            reasonably necessary (e.g., because the production configuration is not yet complete at the
                            time of evaluation, or where the provider removes safeguards to help the evaluator assess
                            worst case scenarios).
                         5. The system provider and evaluator should cooperate to help identify and address system
                            behavior that may undermine the evaluation, such as through overfitting, reward-hacking, or
                            sandbagging.

                  Evaluators should also consider adding canaries to evaluation data to enable later detection of models
                  that have been trained on evaluations.

5.3 Protecting    Requirement: The evaluator implemented measures to protect any confidential information
confidential      they received from the system provider.10
information
                  Examples:
                     9
                        This is in line with the requirement per the EU CoP Safety & Security Chapter Appendix 3.5, which requires
                  signatories to not "undermine the integrity of external model evaluations by storing and/or analysing inputs and/or
                  outputs from test runs without express permission from the evaluators", see https://code-of-practice.
                  ai/?section=safety-security#appendix-3-5-independent-external-model-evaluations
                     10
                        Note that doing so would help establish evaluators as adequately qualified per the EU CoP
                  Safety & Security Appendix 3.5, see https://code-of-practice.ai/?section=safety-security#
                  appendix-3-5-independent-external-model-evaluations


                                                                         11
                           1. Internal measures such as staff non-disclosure agreements, access controls, and cybersecurity
                              protections to limit access to confidential information.
                           2. An agreement to withhold publishing results generated from a non-public system until that
                              system is released.


5.4 Responsible   Requirement: The evaluator established and followed a responsible disclosure policy.
disclosure
policy            This includes at least the following measures, among others:

                           1. First disclosing novel system vulnerabilities11 –such as meaningfully novel weaknesses in
                              system safeguards or prompt injection methods–to the system provider, as well as other
                              providers known to be vulnerable where feasible, before making them public. Vulnerability
                              disclosure should generally follow at least these principles:
                               (a) It may not be appropriate to publicly disclose vulnerabilities in safeguards against
                                    misuse if they cannot reasonably be fixed and are likely to be exploited, such as a
                                    method to generate child sexual abuse material using a widely disseminated open-
                                   weight model. It may be more appropriately to treat such vulnerabilities as information
                                    hazards, as in bullet 2 below.
                               (b) Otherwise, to protect users and the broader public, evaluators should generally not
                                   withhold information about vulnerabilities in publicly available systems for longer than
                                    60 days after disclosure to the system provider.
                               (c) Where a system provider does not itself follow a reasonable responsible disclosure
                                    policy that offers safe harbor and instead may, for instance, retaliate against an evaluator
                                    for disclosing system vulnerabilities, prior notice to the provider before publication is
                                    not required.
                               (d) When considering whether and how to disclose a particular probabilistic attack, like a
                                    particular string variation that can successfully trigger a jailbreak or prompt injection,
                                    evaluators should balance the marginal utility of the discovered information to defend-
                                    ers, evaluators, and potential attackers. Given the difficulty of fully fixing such flaws, it
                                    may not meaningfully advance security to disclose all discovered attack variations, and
                                    doing so may also greatly undermine evaluators’ ability to evaluate system security
                                    over time.
                           2. Redacting other particularly sensitive details from their results, including sensitive personal
                              information and information that presents a severe information hazard (such as CBRN
                              development or the generation of child sexual abuse material) and for which no near term
                              mitigation is possible. This may also involve redacting such details in materials provided to
                              the system provider.

                  References
                   [1] Yoshua Bengio. International AI safety report. January 2025.
                   [2] Frontier Model Forum. Technical Report on Third-Party Assessments, April 2025.
                   [3] Shayne Longpre, Kevin Klyman, Ruth E. Appel, Sayash Kapoor, Rishi Bommasani, Michelle
                       Sahar, Sean McGregor, Avijit Ghosh, Borhane Blili-Hamelin, Nathan Butters, Alondra Nelson,
                       Amit Elazari, Andrew Sellars, Casey John Ellis, Dane Sherrets, Dawn Song, Harley Geiger,
                       Ilona Cohen, Lauren McIlvenny, Madhulika Srikumar, Mark M. Jaycox, Markus Anderljung,
                       Nadine Farid Johnson, Nicholas Carlini, Nicolas Miailhe, Nik Marda, Peter Henderson, Re-
                       becca S. Portnoff, Rebecca Weiss, Victoria Westerhoff, Yacine Jernite, Rumman Chowdhury,
                       Percy Liang, and Arvind Narayanan. In-House Evaluation Is Not Enough: Towards Robust
                       Third-Party Flaw Disclosure for General-Purpose AI, March 2025.
                   [4] Matthias Samwald, Yoshua Bengio, Marietje Schaake, Marta Ziosi, Daniel Privitera, Anka
                       Reuel, Alexander Zacherl, Nitarshan Rajkumar, and Markus Anderljung. Code of Practice for
                       General-Purpose AI Models.
                    11
                         For more detail on responsible disclosure of system flaws, consider existing approaches such as in [3]


                                                                          12
 [5] U.S. National Telecommunications and Information Administration. AI Accountability
     Policy Report: Independent Evaluations. https://www.ntia.gov/issues/artificial-intelligence/ai-
     accountability-policy-report/developing-accountability-inputs-a-deeper-dive/ai-system-
     evaluations/independent-evaluations, March 2024.

 [6] Inioluwa Deborah Raji, Peggy Xu, Colleen Honigsberg, and Daniel E. Ho. Outsider Oversight:
     Designing a Third Party Audit Ecosystem for AI Governance, June 2022.

 [7] Lydia T. Liu, Inioluwa Deborah Raji, Angela Zhou, Luke Guerdan, Jessica Hullman, Daniel
     Malinsky, Bryan Wilder, Simone Zhang, Hammaad Adam, Amanda Coston, Ben Laufer, Ezinne
     Nwankwo, Michael Zanger-Tishler, Eli Ben-Michael, Solon Barocas, Avi Feller, Marissa
     Gerchick, Talia Gillis, Shion Guha, Daniel Ho, Lily Hu, Kosuke Imai, Sayash Kapoor, Joshua
     Loftus, Razieh Nabi, Arvind Narayanan, Ben Recht, Juan Carlos Perdomo, Matthew Salganik,
     Mark Sendak, Alexander Tolbert, Berk Ustun, Suresh Venkatasubramanian, Angelina Wang,
     and Ashia Wilson. Bridging Prediction and Intervention Problems in Social Systems, November
     2025.

 [8] Miranda Bogen. Assessing AI: Surveying the Spectrum of Approaches to Understanding and
     Auditing AI Systems. January 2025.

 [9] Markus Anderljung, Everett Thornton Smith, Joe O’Brien, Lisa Soder, Benjamin Bucknall,
     Emma Bluemke, Jonas Schuett, Robert Trager, Lacey Strahm, and Rumman Chowdhury.
     Towards Publicly Accountable Frontier LLMs: Building an External Scrutiny Ecosystem under
     the ASPIRE Framework, November 2023.

[10] Miles Brundage, Shahar Avin, Jasmine Wang, Haydn Belfield, Gretchen Krueger, Gillian
     Hadfield, Heidy Khlaaf, Jingying Yang, Helen Toner, Ruth Fong, Tegan Maharaj, Pang Wei
     Koh, Sara Hooker, Jade Leung, Andrew Trask, Emma Bluemke, Jonathan Lebensold, Cullen
     O’Keefe, Mark Koren, Théo Ryffel, J. B. Rubinovitz, Tamay Besiroglu, Federica Carugati,
     Jack Clark, Peter Eckersley, Sarah de Haas, Maritza Johnson, Ben Laurie, Alex Ingerman,
     Igor Krawczuk, Amanda Askell, Rosario Cammarota, Andrew Lohn, David Krueger, Charlotte
     Stix, Peter Henderson, Logan Graham, Carina Prunkl, Bianca Martin, Elizabeth Seger, Noa
     Zilberman, Seán Ó hÉigeartaigh, Frens Kroeger, Girish Sastry, Rebecca Kagan, Adrian Weller,
     Brian Tse, Elizabeth Barnes, Allan Dafoe, Paul Scharre, Ariel Herbert-Voss, Martijn Rasser,
     Shagun Sodhani, Carrick Flynn, Thomas Krendl Gilbert, Lisa Dyer, Saif Khan, Yoshua Bengio,
     and Markus Anderljung. Toward Trustworthy AI Development: Mechanisms for Supporting
     Verifiable Claims, April 2020.

[11] Anka Reuel, Avijit Ghosh, Jenny Chim, Andrew Tran, Yanan Long, Jennifer Mickel, Usman
     Gohar, Srishti Yadav, Pawan Sasanka Ammanamanchi, Mowafak Allaham, Hossein A. Rahmani,
     Mubashara Akhtar, Felix Friedrich, Robert Scholz, Michael Alexander Riegler, Jan Batzner,
     Eliya Habba, Arushi Saxena, Anastassia Kornilova, Kevin Wei, Prajna Soni, Yohan Mathew,
     Kevin Klyman, Jeba Sania, Subramanyam Sahoo, Olivia Beyer Bruvik, Pouya Sadeghi, Sujata
     Goswami, Angelina Wang, Yacine Jernite, Zeerak Talat, Stella Biderman, Mykel Kochenderfer,
     Sanmi Koyejo, and Irene Solaiman. Who Evaluates AI’s Social Impacts? Mapping Coverage
     and Gaps in First and Third Party Evaluations, November 2025.

[12] Patricia Paskov, Michael J. Byun, Kevin Wei, and Toby Webster. Preliminary suggestions for
     rigorous GPAI model evaluations. Technical report, May 2025.

[13] Laura Weidinger, Deb Raji, Hanna Wallach, Margaret Mitchell, Angelina Wang, Olawale
     Salaudeen, Rishi Bommasani, and Sanmi Koyejo. Toward an Evaluation Science for Generative
     AI Systems. https://www.nae.edu/19579/19582/21020/337862/338231/Toward-an-Evaluation-
     Science-for-Generative-AI-Systems#about_author338231.

[14] Evan Miller. Adding Error Bars to Evals: A Statistical Approach to Language Model Evaluations,
     November 2024.

[15] Tegan McCaslin, Jide Alaga, Samira Nedungadi, Seth Donoughe, Tom Reed, Rishi Bommasani,
     Chris Painter, and Luca Righetti. STREAM (ChemBio): A Standard for Transparently Reporting
     Evaluations in AI Model Reports, September 2025.


                                                13
[16] Leon Staufer, Mick Yang, Anka Reuel, and Stephen Casper. Audit Cards: Contextualizing AI
     Evaluations, August 2025.
[17] Lara Thurnherr, Robert Trager, Amin Oueslati, Christoph Winter, Cliodhna Ní Ghuidhir, Joe
     O’Brien, Jun Shern Chan, Lorenzo Pacchiardi, Anka Reuel, Merlin Stein, Oliver Guest, Oliver
     Sourbut, Renan Araujo, Seth Donoughe, and Yi Zeng. Who Should Develop Which AI
     Evaluations?
[18] Elliot Jones, Mahi Hardalupas, and William Agnew. Under the radar? Examining the evaluation
     of foundation models. https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/report/under-the-radar/, July 2024.
[19] Hritik Bansal and Pratyush Maini. Peeking Behind Closed Doors: Risks of LLM Evaluation by
     Private Data Curators, February 2025.
[20] Benjamin S Bucknall and Robert F Trager. Structured Access for Third-Party Research on
     Frontier Ai Models: Investigating Researchers’ Model Access Requirements. October 2023.
[21] Stephen Casper, Carson Ezell, Charlotte Siegmann, Noam Kolt, Taylor Lynn Curtis, Benjamin
     Bucknall, Andreas Haupt, Kevin Wei, Jérémy Scheurer, Marius Hobbhahn, Lee Sharkey,
     Satyapriya Krishna, Marvin Von Hagen, Silas Alberti, Alan Chan, Qinyi Sun, Michael Gerovitch,
     David Bau, Max Tegmark, David Krueger, and Dylan Hadfield-Menell. Black-Box Access is
     Insufficient for Rigorous AI Audits. In The 2024 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability,
     and Transparency, pages 2254–2272, Rio de Janeiro Brazil, June 2024. ACM. ISBN 979-8-
     4007-0450-5. doi: 10.1145/3630106.3659037.
[22] Rishi Bommasani, Daniel Zhang, Tony Lee, and Percy Liang. Improving Transparency in AI
     Language Models: A Holistic Evaluation. February 2023.
[23] Sayash Kapoor, Emily M. Cantrell, Kenny Peng, Thanh Hien Pham, Christopher A. Bail,
     Odd Erik Gundersen, Jake M. Hofman, Jessica Hullman, Michael A. Lones, Momin M. Ma-
     lik, Priyanka Nanayakkara, Russell A. Poldrack, Inioluwa Deborah Raji, Michael Roberts,
     Matthew J. Salganik, Marta Serra-Garcia, Brandon M. Stewart, Gilles Vandewiele, and Arvind
     Narayanan. REFORMS: Consensus-based Recommendations for Machine-learning-based
     Science. Science Advances, 10(18):eadk3452, May 2024. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.adk3452.
[24] Sayash Kapoor and Arvind Narayanan. Leakage and the reproducibility crisis in machine-
     learning-based science. Patterns, 4(9):100804, September 2023. ISSN 2666-3899. doi:
     10.1016/j.patter.2023.100804.
[25] Frontier Model Forum. Issue Brief: Components of Frontier AI Safety Frameworks, November
     2024.
[26] OpenAI. GPT-5 System Card, August 2025.
[27] Anthropic. Claude Sonnet 4.5 System Card, September 2025.
[28] Google. Gemini 2.5 Pro - Model Card. June 2025.
[29] UK Department for Science, Innovation & Technology. Frontier AI Safety Commit-
     ments, AI Seoul Summit 2024. https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/frontier-ai-safety-
     commitments-ai-seoul-summit-2024/frontier-ai-safety-commitments-ai-seoul-summit-2024.
[30] The White House. Voluntary AI Commitments, September 2023.
[31] Wei-Lin Chiang, Lianmin Zheng, Ying Sheng, Anastasios Nikolas Angelopoulos, Tianle Li,
     Dacheng Li, Hao Zhang, Banghua Zhu, Michael Jordan, Joseph E. Gonzalez, and Ion Stoica.
     Chatbot Arena: An Open Platform for Evaluating LLMs by Human Preference, March 2024.
[32] Common Sense Media. AI Risk Assessment ChatGPT 5. October 2025.
[33] Nathaniel Li, Alexander Pan, Anjali Gopal, Summer Yue, Daniel Berrios, Alice Gatti, Justin D.
     Li, Ann-Kathrin Dombrowski, Shashwat Goel, Long Phan, Gabriel Mukobi, Nathan Helm-
     Burger, Rassin Lababidi, Lennart Justen, Andrew B. Liu, Michael Chen, Isabelle Barrass,
     Oliver Zhang, Xiaoyuan Zhu, Rishub Tamirisa, Bhrugu Bharathi, Adam Khoja, Zhenqi Zhao,


                                                14
       Ariel Herbert-Voss, Cort B. Breuer, Samuel Marks, Oam Patel, Andy Zou, Mantas Mazeika,
       Zifan Wang, Palash Oswal, Weiran Lin, Adam A. Hunt, Justin Tienken-Harder, Kevin Y. Shih,
       Kemper Talley, John Guan, Russell Kaplan, Ian Steneker, David Campbell, Brad Jokubaitis,
       Alex Levinson, Jean Wang, William Qian, Kallol Krishna Karmakar, Steven Basart, Stephen
       Fitz, Mindy Levine, Ponnurangam Kumaraguru, Uday Tupakula, Vijay Varadharajan, Ruoyu
       Wang, Yan Shoshitaishvili, Jimmy Ba, Kevin M. Esvelt, Alexandr Wang, and Dan Hendrycks.
       The WMDP Benchmark: Measuring and Reducing Malicious Use With Unlearning, May 2024.
[34] HuggingFace. AI Energy Score. https://huggingface.github.io/AIEnergyScore/.
[35] National Institute of Standards and Technology. Pre-Deployment Evaluation of OpenAI’s o1
     Model. NIST, December 2024.
[36] UK AI Security Institute.          Early lessons from evaluating frontier AI systems.
     https://www.aisi.gov.uk/blog/early-lessons-from-evaluating-frontier-ai-systems, October 2024.
[37] The European Commission. AI Office contributes to the third-joint testing exercise of the
     International Network of AI Safety Institutes. https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/news/ai-
     office-contributes-third-joint-testing-exercise-international-network-ai-safety-institutes, July
     2025.
[38] Shanghai AI Lab, Xiaoyang Chen, Yunhao Chen, Zeren Chen, Zhiyun Chen, Hanyun Cui,
     Yawen Duan, Jiaxuan Guo, Qi Guo, Xuhao Hu, Hong Huang, Lige Huang, Chunxiao Li,
     Juncheng Li, Qihao Lin, Dongrui Liu, Xinmin Liu, Zicheng Liu, Chaochao Lu, Xiaoya Lu,
     Jingjing Qu, Qibing Ren, Jing Shao, Jingwei Shi, Jingwei Sun, Peng Wang, Weibing Wang,
     Jia Xu, Lewen Yan, Xiao Yu, Yi Yu, Boxuan Zhang, Jie Zhang, Weichen Zhang, Zhijie Zheng,
     Tianyi Zhou, and Bowen Zhou. Frontier AI Risk Management Framework in Practice: A Risk
     Analysis Technical Report, July 2025.
[39] International Network of AI Safety Institutes. International Joint Testing Exercise: Agentic
     Testing.


Appendix A         Implementation Checklist
Evaluation results claiming to implement this standard should include the following checklist to
demonstrate compliance.12 Each condition in the checklist is marked as either required to comply
with these minimum operating conditions, or else recommended but not applicable in all cases.




  12
   Template checklists for .docx and LaTeX are available at https://aievaluatorforum.org/
initiatives/minimum-operating-conditions.


                                                 15
                                    AEF-1 Checklist
 This checklist summarizes how this evaluation addressed the requirements and recommendations for
 independent AI evaluations established by the voluntary standard AEF-1 Minimum Operating
 Conditions for Independent Third Party AI Evaluations, which are intended to help ensure the
 independence, transparency, and access of third-party AI evaluations. See
 https://aievaluatorforum.org/initiatives/minimum-operating-conditions for
 more details, including more detailed definitions of each condition below. This is version 1 of this
 checklist format (updated December 4, 2025).
Does this evaluation satisfy all the minimum          Yes/No
requirements of AEF-1? (provide details below)
                        1: Secure Sufficient Access and Resources
                   Condition                          Fulfilled? Notes/Evidence
           Requirement: The evaluator secured         Yes/No
           sufficient technical access to assess
           the specific system characteristics
           being evaluated.

           Note: for the below sub-elements of
           condition 1.1, only 1.1.1 is required.
1.1        The rest may be important to a valid
           evaluation, but will depend on the
           nature of the evaluation methods.
           The evaluator had query access.            Yes/No
           The evaluator had access to the            Yes/No
           system’s scaffolding.
           The evaluator had exemptions from          Yes/No
           system safeguards.
           The evaluator had access to                Yes/No
           intermediate system states.
           The evaluator had finetuning access.       Yes/No
           The evaluator had access to model          Yes/No
           weights.
           The evaluator was granted access to        Yes/No
           other tools for elicitation or otherwise
           supporting external validity.
           The evaluator had access to relevant       Yes/No
           user data.
1.2        Recommendation: The system                 Yes/No
           provider shared with the evaluator
           information relevant to carrying out a
           trustworthy and useful evaluation.
1.3        Requirement: The evaluator had             Yes/No
           access to sufficient computational
           resources to complete a thorough
           evaluation.




                                                16
              Condition                            Fulfilled? Notes/Evidence
1.4   Requirement: The evaluator had               Yes/No
      adequate time to carry out a thorough
      evaluation.
1.5   Recommendation: The system                   Yes/No
      provider provided legal safe harbor
      for actions by the evaluator that are
      within the agreed upon scope of the
      evaluation.
                         2: Minimized Conflicts of Interest
2.1   Requirement: The evaluator did not           Yes/No
      receive compensation contingent on
      the results of the evaluation.
2.2   Requirement: The system provider             Yes/No
      did not exercise organizational or
      financial control over the evaluator.
2.3   Requirement: The evaluator has               Yes/No    (Should include a link to the policy on
      published a conflict of interest policy,               a publicly available website)
      and it was applied to the evaluation.
2.4   Requirement: The evaluator clearly           Yes/No
      disclosed potential conflicts of interest
      relevant to the evaluation.

      Note: For each of the below
      sub-elements of condition 2.4,
      indicate whether the answer is "yes"
      or "no" in the "Notes/Evidence"
      column, and add accompanying
      information if the answer is "yes".
      Was the evaluator paid by the system         Yes/No
      provider or its direct competitor to
      conduct the evaluation?
      Does a meaningful fraction of the            Yes/No
      evaluator’s funding come from the
      system provider, its employees, or its
      direct competitors?
      Do the system provider, its employees,       Yes/No
      or its direct competitors own equity in
      the evaluator organization?
      Do evaluator staff who carried out the       Yes/No
      evaluation own equity in the system
      provider or its direct competitors?
      Do any evaluation staff working on           Yes/No
      the evaluation simultaneously work
      for the system provider or its direct
      competitors?
      Did the evaluator have any other             Yes/No
      conflicts of interest relevant to the
      evaluation?


                                              17
             Condition                            Fulfilled? Notes/Evidence
2.5   Requirement: The evaluator recused          Yes/No
      any individuals with a significant
      financial interest in the system
      provider from carrying out the
      evaluation.
2.6   Recommendation: The evaluator               Yes/No
      disclosed any separate agreements
      with the system provider that
      significantly impact the independence
      and trustworthiness of the evaluation.
                                3: Analytic Autonomy
3.1   Recommendation: The evaluator               Yes/No
      retained flexibility to define which
      specific properties of the system to
      evaluate.
3.2   Requirement: The evaluator had              Yes/No
      autonomy in deciding the methods of
      the evaluation.
3.3   Recommendation: The evaluator ran           Yes/No
      the evaluations themselves via direct
      system access.
3.4   Requirement: The evaluator retained         Yes/No
      editorial control over how they
      present the results of their evaluation.
                      4: Transparent Methods and Results
4.1   Requirement: The evaluator shared           Yes/No
      sufficient methodological details to
      allow for independent review of the
      results.
4.2   Recommendation: The system                  Yes/No
      provider granted upfront any
      necessary rights to disclose results to
      the evaluation’s intended audiences.
4.3   Recommendation: The intended                Yes/No
      audiences for an evaluation were not
      narrowed based on the results.
4.4   Recommendation: The system                  Yes/No
      provider did not misrepresent the
      evaluation’s findings.
4.5   Recommendation: The system                  Yes/No
      provider or other external parties did
      not unduly delay the evaluation from
      being disclosed based on the content
      of the results.
4.6   Requirement: The system provider            Yes/No
      did not have authority to redact results
      to conceal concerning findings.


                                             18
                      Condition                           Fulfilled? Notes/Evidence
 4.7          Recommendation: The evaluator               Yes/No
              clearly disclosed the redaction
              authorities granted to the system
              provider or other external entities.
                              5: Protection of Sensitive Information
 5.1          Requirement: The evaluator had the          Yes/No
              system provider’s permission to
              release any results based on
              non-public information or systems.
 5.2          Recommendation: The evaluation              Yes/No
              methods were not gamed or leaked.
 5.3          Requirement: The evaluator                  Yes/No
              implemented measures to protect any
              confidential information they received
              from the system provider.
 5.4          Requirement: The evaluator                  Yes/No
              established and followed a responsible
              disclosure policy.


Appendix B         Terminology
For the purposes of this document, these terms are defined as follows:

   Conflict of interest A situation that creates a risk that evaluator, its employees, or other agents
   working on its behalf to carry out an evaluation of a partiuclar system could be influenced by an
   incentive to not provide as rigorous and accurate an evaluation as possible.
   Evaluator An organization that conducts assessments of an AI system provider’s systems or
   processes.
   System provider An organization which develops or operates AI models or systems.
   System vulnerability A weakness in a system that could be exploited by a malicious actor to
   harm the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the system and its data, or which could be
   used to bypass safeguards intended to constrain the system’s behavior to prevent misuse.
   Information hazard Information about the misuse of AI systems or the general pursuit of
   harmful acts that, if disclosed, would foreseeably cause more harm than benefit, such as specific
   details of how to produce dangerous chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear (CBRN)
   materials or child sexual abuse material (CSAM). Relevant factors in determining whether
   disclosure would cause more harm than benefit include:
    1.   Whether broader knowledge of the issue is more likely to help people protect themselves, or
         to help malicious actors cause harm. For example, knowledge that a system’s behavior is
         harmful to mental health is generally much more likely to allow consumers to avoid unsafe
         systems than to aid malicious actors, whereas knowledge about how a particular system can
         aid criminal activity is more likely to attract malicious actors to use that system.
    2.   Whether the relevant issue can be remediated, either by direct system improvements or
         broader interventions. For example, a system’s security flaws can almost always be reme-
         diated either by improvements to the system, or else by encouraging users to prefer more
         secure alternatives. Conversely, there is less that can be done to prevent users from accessing
         an open-weight AI model that is useful for making CSAM after it has been released.
   Third-party      A separate organization that is not under the control of the system provider.



                                                     19
