LIBT^ARV 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2007  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/alchemyancientmoOOredgrich 


ALCHEMY:  ANCIENT  AND  MODERN 


PLATE 


El'FJ  GIES    P.  ARASELCl 

(^\ii/it/  fiv-tij  .h,j<l<>    rftrijufej^e'' 


^f:dici  celeberrimj 


^0^^^n. 


(^(/Gn-J^hecciomM-  tercel 


/run  inx(i 
{a.  tvivreii 


rem 
entaiie 


PORTRAIT    OF    PARACF.I.SUS. 


{FrontispiCiA 


ALCHEMY : 
ANCIENT  AND  MODERN 

BEING  A  BRIEF  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  ALCHEMISTIC  DOC- 
TRINES, AND  THEIR  RELATIONS,  TO  MYSTICISM  ON 
THE  ONE  HAND,  AND  TO  RECENT  DISCOVERIES  IN 
PHYSICAL  SCIENCE  ON  THE  OTHER  HAND;  TOGETHER 
WITH  SOME  PARTICULARS  REGARDING  THE  LIVES 
AND    TEACHINGS     OF    THE    MOST     NOTED    ALCHEMISTS 


BY 

H.  STANLEY  REDGROVE,  B.Sc.  (Lond.),  F.C.S. 

AUTHOR  OF  "ON  THE  CALCULATION  OF  THERMO-CHEMICAL  CONSTANTS," 
"  MATTER,   SPIRIT  AND  THE  COSMOS,"   ETC. 


WITH    16   FULL.PAGE   ILLUSTRATIONS 


PHILADELPHIA 

DAVID   McKAY,   Publisher, 

604-8  SOUTH  WASHINGTON   SQUARE. 


lAiMLARY 
VmVERSixY  OF  C/iLLFOSNM: 


Printed  in  Engl 


PREFACE 

The  number  of  books  in  the  English  language  dealing 
with  the  interesting  subject  of  Alchemy  is  not  suffi- 
ciently great  to  render  an  apology  necessary  for 
adding  thereto.  Indeed,  at  the  present  time  there 
is  an  actual  need  for  a  further  contribution  on  this 
subject.  The  time  is  gone  when  it  was  regarded 
as  perfectly  legitimate  to  point  to  Alchemy  as  an 
instance  of  the  aberrations  of  the  human  mind 
Recent  experimental  research  has  brought  about  pro- 
found modifications  in  the  scientific  notions  regarding 
the  chemical  elements,  and,  indeed,  in  the  scientific 
concept  of  the  physical  universe  itself ;  and  a  certain 
resemblance  can  be  traced  between  these  later 
views  and  the  theories  of  bygone  Alchemy.  The 
spontaneous  change  of  one  ** element"  into  another 
has  been  witnessed,  and  the  recent  work  of  Sir 
William  Ramsay  suggests  the  possibility  of  realising 
the  old  alchemistic  dream — the  transmutation  of  the 
**  base  "  metals  into  gold. 

The  basic  idea  permeating  all  the  alchemistic 
theories  appears  to  have  been  this :  All  the  metals 
(and,  indeed,  all  forms  of  matter)  are  one  in  origin, 
and  are  produced  by  an  evolutionary  process.  The 
Soul  of  them  all  is  one  and  the  same  ;  it  is  only  the 


vi  PREFACE 

Soul  that  is  permanent ;  the  body  or  outward  form, 
i.e.,  the  mode  of  manifestation  of  the  Soul,  is  transi- 
tory, and  one  form  may  be  transmuted  into  another. 
The  similarity,  indeed  it  might  be  said,  the  identity, 
between  this  view  and  the  modern  etheric  theory  of 
matter  is  at  once  apparent. 

The  old  alchemists  reached  the  above  conclusion 
by  a  theoretical  method,  and  attempted  to  demon- 
strate the  validity  of  their  theory  by  means  of  experi- 
ment ;  in  which,  it  appears,  they  failed.  Modern 
science,  adopting  the  reverse  process,  for  a  time 
lost  hold  of  the  idea  of  the  unity  of  the  physical 
universe,  to  gain  it  once  again  by  the  experimental 
method.  It  was  in  the  elaboration  of  this  grand 
fundamental  idea  that  Alchemy  failed.  If  we  were 
asked  to  contrast  Alchemy  with  the  chemical  and 
physical  science  of  the  nineteenth  century  we  would 
say  that,  whereas  the  latter  abounded  in  a  wealth  of 
much  accurate  detail  and  much  relative  truth,  it  lacked 
philosophical  depth  and  insight ;  whilst  Alchemy, 
deficient  in  such  accurate  detail,  was  characterised 
by  a  greater  degree  of  philosophical  depth  and  in- 
sight ;  for  the  alchemists  did  grasp  the  fundamental 
truth  of  the  Cosmos,  although  they  distorted  it  and 
made  it  appear  grotesque.  The  alchemists  cast  their 
theories  in  a  mould  entirely  fantastic,  even  ridiculous 
— they  drew  unwarrantable  analogies — and  hence 
their  views  cannot  be  accepted  in  these  days  of 
modern  science.  But  if  we  cannot  approve  of  their 
theories  in  toto,  we  can  nevertheless  appreciate  the 
fundamental  ideas  at  the  root  of  them.  And  it  is 
primarily  with  the  object  of  pointing  out  this  similarity 
between  these  ancient  ideas  regarding  the  physical 


PREFACE  vii 

universe  and  the  latest  products  of  scientific  thought, 
that  this  book  has  been  written. 

It  is  a  regrettable  fact  that  the  majority  of  works 
dealing  with  the  subject  of  Alchemy  take  a  one-sided 
point  of  view.  The  chemists  generally  take  a  purely 
physical  view  of  the  subject,  and  instead  of  trying  to 
understand  its  mystical  language,  often  (we  do  not 
say  always)  prefer  to  label  it  nonsense  and  the 
alchemist  a  fool.  On  the  other  hand,  the  mystics,  in 
many  cases,  take  a  purely  transcendental  view  of  the 
subject,  forgetting  the  fact  that  the  alchemists  were, 
for  the  most  part,  concerned  with  operations  of  a 
physical  nature.  For  a  proper  understanding  of 
Alchemy,  as  we  hope  to  make  plain  in  the  first 
chapter  of  this  work,  a  synthesis  of  both  points  of 
view  is  essential  ;  and,  since  these  two  aspects  are 
so  intimately  and  essentially  connected  with  one 
another,  this  is  necessary  even  when,  as  in  the  follow- 
ing work,  one  is  concerned  primarily  with  the 
physical,  rather  than  the  purely  mystical,  aspect  of 
the  subject. 

Now,  the  author  of  this  book  may  lay  claim  to 
being  a  humble  student  of  both  Chemistry  and  what 
may  be  generalised  under  the  terms  Mysticism  and 
Transcendentalism ;  and  he  hopes  that  this  perhaps 
rather  unusual  combination  of  studies  has  enabled 
him  to  take  a  broad-minded  view  of  the  theories  of 
the  alchemists,  and  to  adopt  a  sympathetic  attitude 
towards  them. 

With  regard  to  the  illustrations,  the  author  must 
express  his  thanks  to  the  authorities  of  the  British 
Museum  for  permission  to  photograph  portrait- 
engravings  and   illustrations   from  old  works  in  the 


viii  PREFACE 

British  Museum  Collections,  and  to  G.  H.  Gabb, 
Esq.,  F.C.S.,  for  permission  to  photograph  portrait- 
engravings  in  his  possession. 

The  author's  heartiest  thanks  are  also  due  to 
Frank  E.  Weston,  Esq.,  B.Sc,  F.C.S.,  and  W.  G. 
Llewellyn,  Esq.,  for  their  kind  help  in  reading  the 

P^'"^^'  ^"  H.  S.  R. 

The  Polytechnic,  London,  W. 
October^  1910. 


CONTENTS 


Chapter  I.  The  Meaning  of  Alchemy 

§1.  The  Aim  of  Alchemy 

§  2,  The  Transcendental  Theory  of  Alchemy 

§  3.  Failure  of  the  Transcendental  Theory 

§  4.  The  Qualifications  of  the  Adept 

§  5.  Alchemistic  Language 

§  6.  Alchemists  of  a  Mystical  Type 

§  7.  The  Meaning  of  Alchemy 

§  8.  Opinions  of  other  Writers 

§  9.  The  Basic  Idea  of  Alchemy  . 

§  ID.  The  Law  of  Analogy 

§  II.  The  Dual  Nature  of  Alchemy 

§  12.  ♦*  Body,  Soul  and  Spirit "      . 

§  13.  Alchemy,  Mysticism  and  Modern  Science 


PAGE 

I 

I 
Z 

3 

4 

5 

7 

7 

8 

10 

12 

13 

14 

IS 


Chapter  II.    The  Theory  of  Physical  Alchemy 

§  14.  Supposed  Proofs  of  Transmutation    . 

§  15.  The  Alchemistic  Elements    . 

§  16.  Aristotle's  Views  regarding  the  Elements 

§  17.  The  Sulphur-Mercury  Theory 

§  18.  The  Sulphur- Mercury-Salt  Theory    . 

§  19.  Alchemistic  Elements  and  Principles 

§  20.  -  The  Growth  of  the  Metals     . 

§  21.  Alchemy  and  Astrology 

§  22.  Alchemistic  View  of  the  Nature  of  Gold 

§  23.  The  Philosopher's  Stone 

§  24.  The  Nature  of  the  Philosopher's  Stone 

§  25.  The  Theory  of  Development 

§  26.  The  Powers  of  the  Philosopher's  Stone 

§  27.  The  Elixir  of  Life      . 

§  28.  The  Practical  Methods  of  the  Alchemists 


17 

17 
18 

19 

20 

22 

23 

25 
26 
27 
29 

30 
32 

34 
35 
36 


CONTENTS 


Chapter  III.    The  Alchemists  (A.  Before  Paracelsus) 

§  29.  Hermes  Trismegistos 

§  30.  The  Smaragdine  Table 

§31.  Zosimus  of  Panopolis 

§  32.  Geber 

§  33.  Other  Arabian  Alchemists 

§  34.  Albertus  Magnus 

§  35.  Thomas  Aquinas 

§  36.  Roger  Bacon  . 

§  37.  Arnold  de  Villanova  . 

§  38.  Raymond  Lully 

§  39.  Peter  Bonus    . 

§  40.  Nicolas  Flamel 

§  41.  **  Basil  Valentine  "  and  the  Triumphal  Chariot  of  Antimony 

§42.  Isaac  of  Holland 

§  43.  Bernard  Trevisan 

§  44.  Sir  George  Ripley 

§  45.  Thomas  Norton 


Chapter  IV.    The  Alchemists  (B.  Paracelsus  and  after) 

§  46.  Paracelsus       .... 

§  47.  Views  of  Paracelsus    . 

§  48.  latro-chemistry 

§  49.  The  Rosicrucian  Society 

§  50.  Thomas  Charnock 

§  51.  Andreas  Libavius 

§  52.  Edward  Kelley  and  John  Dee 

§  53.  Henry  Khunrath 

§  54.  Alexander  Sethon  and  Michael  Sendivogius 

§  55.  Michael  Maier 

§  56.  Jacob  Boehme 

§  57.  J.  B.  van  Helmont  and  F.  M.  van  Helmont 

§  58.  Johann  Rudolf  Glauber 

§  59.  Thomas  Vaughan  ('*  Eugenius  Philalethes  ") 

§  60.  *'  Eirengeus  Philalethes  "  and  George  Stark ey 

Chapter  V.    The  Outcome  of  Alchemy 

§  61.  Did  the  Alchemists  achieve  the  Magnum  Opus  ? 

§  62.  The  Testimony  of  van  Helmont 

§  63.  The  Testimony  of  Helvetius 

§  64.  Helvetius  obtains  the  Philosopher's  Stone 

§  65.  Helvetius  performs  a  Transmutation  . 


CONTENTS 


XI 


§  66.  Helvetius's  Gold  Assayed 

§  67.  Helvetius's  Gold  Further  Tested 

§  68.  The  Genesis  of  Chemistry      . 

§  69.  The  Degeneracy  of  Alchemy 

§  70.  "  Count  Cagliostro  " 

Chapter  VI.    The  Age  of  Modern  Chemistry 

§  71.  The  Birth  of  Modern  Chemistry 

§  72.  The  Phlogiston  Theory 

§  73.  Boyle  and  the  Definition  of  an  Element 

§  74.  The  Stoichiometric  Laws 

§  75.  Dalton's  Atomic  Theory 

§  76.  The  Determination  of  the  Atomic  Weights  of  the  Elements 

§  77.  Prout's  Hypothesis    . 

§  78.  The  •'  Periodic  Law  " 

§  79.  The  Corpuscular  Theory  of  Matter    . 

§  80,  Proof  that  the  Electrons  are  not  Matter 

§  81.  The  Electronic  Theory  of  Matter      . 

§  82.  The  Etheric  Theory  of  Matter 

§  83.  Further  Evidence  of  the  Complexity  of  the  Atoms 

§  84.  Views  of  Wald  and  Ostwald  . 

Chapter  VI L    Modern  Alchemy 

§85.  "Modem  Alchemy'* 

§  86.  X-Rays  and  Becquerel  Rays  . 

§  87.  The  Discovery  of  Radium 

§  88.  Chemical  Properties  of  Radium 

§  89.  The  Radioactivity  of  Radium 

§  90.  The  Disintegration  of  the  Radium  Atom 

§91.  *•  Induced  Radioactivity  "     . 

§  92.  Properties  of  Uranium  and  Thorium 

§  93.  The  Radium  Emanation 

§  94.  The  Production  of  Helium  from  Emanation 

§  95.  Nature  of  this  Change 

§  96.  Is  this  Change  a  true  Transmutation  ? 

§  97.  The  Production  of  Neon  from  Emanation 

§  98.  Ramsay's  Experiments  on  Copper     . 

§  99.  Further  Experiments  on  Radium  and  Copper 

§  loa  Ramsay's  Experiments  on  Thorium  and  allied  Metals 

§  lOi.  The  Possibility  of  Making  Gold 

§  102.  The  Significance  of  "  Allotropy  "      . 

§  103.  Conclusion     .... 


88 
86 
89 
90 
91 

94 

94 
94 
96 
96 
99 
102 
102 

109 

no 
112 

"3 

114 

IIS 

H7 

117 

117 
118 

119 
120 
122 
123 
123 
124 

125 

127 
128 
130 
132 
134 
134 
136 
136 
140 


LIST   OF   PLATES 


Plate     i.    Portrait  of  Paracelsus    .....    Frontispiece 

TO  FACE  PAGE 

Plate    2.     Symbolical  Illustration   representing  the  Trinity    of  Body, 

Soul  and  Spirit      ......        15 


Plate    3.    Symbolical  Illustrations  representing — 

(a)  The  Fertility  of  the  Earth      .  | 

(b)  The  Amalgamation  of  Mercury  and  Gold ) 

Plate    4.     S5niibolical  Illustrations  representing — 

(a)  The  Coction  of  Gold- Amalgam  in  a  Closed  Vessel 

(b)  The  Transmutation  of  the  Metals 


Plate    9.    Portraits  of— 

(a)  Edward  Kelley  I 

(b)  John  Dee  > 


26 


33 


Plate    5.    Alchemistic  Apparatus — 

(a)  (b)  Two  forms  of  apparatus  for  sublimation  .  .        37 

Plate    6.    Alchemistic  Apparatus — 

(a)  Athanors  )  ^ 

(b)  a  Pelican^ ^ 

Plate    7.    Portrait  of  Albertus  Magnus     .....        44 

Plate    8.    Portraits  of— 

(a)  Thomas  Aquinas) 

(B)  Nicolas  Flamel    > ^^ 


68 


Plate  10.  Portrait  of  Michael  Maier  .....  72 
Plate  II.  Portrait  of  Jacob  Boehme  .....  74 
Plate  12.     Portraits  of  J.  B.  and  F.  M.  van  Helmont       ...        76 


xiv  LIST  OF  PLATES 

TO  FACE  PAGE 

Plate  13.  Portrait  of  J.  F.  Helvetius  .....  84 

Plate  14.  Portrait  of  "Cagliostro"  .....  92 

Plate  15.  Portrait  of  Robert  Boyle  .....  94 

Plate  16.  Portrait  of  John  Dalton  .....  loo 

Table  showing  the  Periodic  Classification  of  the  Chemical 

Elements      ......  Pages  106,  107 


ALCHEMY  : 
ANCIENT    AND    MODERN 

CHAPTER   I 

THE   MEANING  OF  ALCHEMY 

§  1.  Alchemy  is  generally  understood  to  have  been 
that   art  whose    end   was   the   transmutation   of  the 

so-called  base  metals  into  gold  by  means 
.    ®  ,  "^       of    an   ill-defined   something   called   the 

Philosopher's  Stone ;  but  even  from  a 
purely  physical  standpoint,  this  is  a  somewhat  super- 
ficial view.  Alchemy  was  both  a  philosophy  and  an 
experimental  science,  and  the  transmutation  of  the 
metals  was  its  end  only  in  that  this  would  give  the 
final  proof  of  the  alchemistic  hypotheses ;  in  other 
words,  Alchemy,  considered  from  the  physical  stand- 
point, was  the  attempt  to  demonstrate  experimentally 
on  the  material  plane  the  validity  of  a  certain  philo- 
sophical view  of  the  Cosmos.  We  see  the  genuine 
scientific  spirit  in  the  saying  of  one  of  the  alchemists  : 
"  Would  to  God  ...  all  men  might  become  adepts  in 
our  Art — for  then  gold,  the  great  idol  of  mankind, 
would   lose   its    value,  and  we  should   prize   it   only 

2 


2  ALCHEMY  [§  2 

for  its  scientific  teaching." ^  Unfortunately,  however, 
not  many  alchemists  came  up  to  this  ideal ;  and  for 
the  majority  of  them,  Alchemy  did  mean  merely  the 
possibility  of  making  gold  cheaply  and  gaining  untold 
wealth. 

§  2.  By  some  mystics,  however,  the  opinion  has 
been  expressed  that  Alchemy  was  not  a  physical  art 
The  Tran-  ^^  science  at  all,  that  in  no  sense  was  its 
scendental  object  the  manufacture  of  material  gold. 
Theory  ^nd  that  its  processes  were  not  carried 
c  emy.  ^^^  ^^  ^j^^  physical  plane.  According  to 
this  transcendental  theory.  Alchemy  was  concerned 
with  man's  soul,  its  object  was  the  perfection,  not 
of  material  substances,  but  of  man  in  a  spiritual  sense. 
Those  who  hold  this  view  identify  Alchemy  with,  or 
at  least  regard  it  as  a  branch  of.  Mysticism,  from 
which  it  is  supposed  to  differ  merely  by  the  employ- 
ment of  a  special  language  ;  and  they  hold  that  the 
writings  of  the  alchemists  must  not  be  understood 
literally  as  dealing  with  chemical  operations,  with  fur- 
naces, retorts,  alembics,  pelicans  and  the  like,  with  salt, 
sulphur,  mercury,  gold  and  other  material  substances, 
but  must  be  understood  as  grand  allegories  dealing 
with  spiritual  truths.  According  to  this  view,  the 
figure  of  the  transmutation  of  the  "base"  metals 
into  gold  symbolised  the  salvation  of  man — the 
transmutation  of  his  soul  into  spiritual  gold — which 
was  to  be  obtained  by  the  elimination  of  evil  and  the 
development  of  good  by  the  grace  of  God ;  and 
the  realisation  of  which  salvation  or  spiritual  trans- 

*  "  EiRENiEUS  Philalethes  " :  An  Open  Entrance  to  the  Closed 
Palace  of  the  King  (see  The  Hermetic  Museum^  Restored  and 
Enlarged^  edited  by  A.  E.   Waite,   1893,  vol.   ii.  p.  178). 


§  3]     THE  MEANING  OF  ALCHEMY         3 

mutation  may  be  described  as  the  New  Birth,  or  that 
condition  of  being  known  as  union  with  the  Divine. 
It  would  follow,  of  course,  if  this  theory  were  true, 
that  the  genuine  alchemists  were  pure  mystics,  and 
hence,  that  the  development  of  chemical  science  was 
not  due  to  their  labours,  but  to  pseudo-alchemists  who 
so  far  misunderstood  their  writings  as  to  have  in- 
terpreted them  in  a  literal  sense. 

§  3.  This  theory,  however,  has  been  effectively 
disposed  of  by  Mr.  Arthur  Edward  Waite,  who 
Failure  of  po^J^^s  to  the  lives  of  the  alchemists  them- 
the  Tran-  selves  in  refutation  of  it.  For  their  lives 
scendental  indisputably  prove  that  the  alchemists 
were  occupied  with  chemical  operations 
on  the  physical  plane,  and  that  for  whatever  motive, 
they  toiled  to  discover  a  method  for  transmuting  the 
commoner  metals  into  actual,  material  gold.  As 
Paracelsus  himself  says  of  the  true  "  spagyric  physi- 
cians," who  were  the  alchemists  of  his  period  :  "These 
do  not  give  themselves  up  to  ease  and  idleness  .  .  . 
But  they  devote  themselves  diligently  to  their  labours, 
sweating  whole  nights  over  fiery  furnaces.  These 
do  not  kill  the  time  with  empty  talk,  but  find  their 
delight  in  their  laboratory. "2  The  writings  of  the 
alchemists  contain  (mixed,  however,  with  much  that 
from  the  physical  standpoint  appears  merely  fantastic) 
accurate  accounts  of  many  chemical  processes  and 
discoveries,  which  cannot  be  explained  away  by  any 
method  of  transcendental  interpretation.  There  is 
not  the  slightest  doubt  that  chemistry  owes  its  origin 

""  Paracelsus  :  "  Concerning  the  Nature  of  Things "  (see  The 
Hermetic  and  Alchemical  Writings  of  Paracelsus^  edited  by  A.  E. 
Waite,  1894,  vol.  i.  p.  167). 


4  ALCHEMY  [§  4 

i 

to  the  direct  labours  of  the  alchemists  themselves,  and 

not  to  any  who  misread  their  writings. 

§  4.  At   the   same   time,    it   is  quite   evident   that 

there  is  a  considerable  element  of  Mysticism  in  the 

alchemistic   doctrines  ;    this    has   always 

^^®  been  recog^nised  ;  but,  as  a  general  rule, 

Qualifications      ,  ,       ,  111  1  • 

of  the  Adept,    those  who  have  approached  the  subject 

from  the  scientific  point  of  view  have  con- 
sidered this  mystical  element  as  of  little  or  no  import- 
ance. However,  there  are  certain  curious  facts  which 
are  not  satisfactorily  explained  by  a  purely  physical 
theory  of  Alchemy,  and,  in  our  opinion,  the  recognition 
of  the  importance  of  this  mystical  element  and  of  the 
true  relation  which  existed  between  Alchemy  and 
Mysticism  is  essential  for  the  right  understanding 
of  the  subject.  We  may  notice,  in  the  first  place, 
that  the  alchemists  always  speak  of  their  Art  as  a 
Divine  Gift,  the  highest  secrets  of  which  are  not 
to  be  learnt  from  any  books  on  the  subject ;  and  they 
invariably  teach  that  the  right  mental  attitude  with 
regard  to  God  is  the  first  step  necessary  for  the 
achievement  of  the  magnum  opus.  As  says  one 
alchemist :  "  In  the  first  place,  let  every  devout  and 
God-fearing  chemist  and  student  of  this  Art  consider 
that  this  arcanum  should  be  regarded,  not  only  as 
a  truly  great,  but  as  a  most  holy  Art  (seeing  that  it 
typifies  and  shadows  out  the  highest  heavenly  good). 
Therefore,  if  any  man  desire  to  reach  this  great  and 
unspeakable  Mystery,  he  must  remember  that  it  is 
obtained  not  by  the  might  of  man,  but  by  the  grace  of 
God,  and  that  not  our  will  or  desire,  but  only  the 
mercy  of  the  Most  High,  can  bestow  it  upon  us. 
For  this   reason   you  must  first  of  all  cleanse   your 


§  5]     THE   MEANING   OF  ALCHEMY  5 

heart,  lift  it  up  to  Him  alone,  and  ask  of  Him  this 
gift  in  true,  earnest,  and  undoubting  prayer.  He 
alone  can  give  and  bestow  it." 3  And  "  Basil  Valen- 
tine "  :  ''  First,  there  should  be  the  invocation  of  God, 
flowing  from  the  depth  of  a  pure  and  sincere  heart, 
and  a  conscience  which  should  be  free  from  all  am- 
bition, hypocrisy,  and  vice,  as  also  from  all  cognate 
faults,  such  as  arrogance,  boldness,  pride,  luxury, 
worldly  vanity,  oppression  of  the  poor,  and  similar 
iniquities,  which  should  all  be  rooted  up  out  of  the 
heart — that  when  a  man  appears  before  the  Throne 
of  Grace,  to  regain  the  health  of  his  body,  he 
may  come  v/ith  a  conscience  weeded  of  all  tares,  and 
be  changed  into  a  pure  temple  of  God  cleansed  of  all 
that  defiles."4 

§  5.  In  the  second  place,  we  must  notice  the  nature 
of  alchemistic  language.     As  we  have  hinted  above, 
and  as  is  at  once  apparent  on  opening 
Langwe^     any  alchemistic   book,    the   language   of 
Alchemy   is   very   highly   mystical,    and 
there   is   much   that   is   perfectly  unintelligible   in   a 
physical    sevii>e^     Indeed,    the    alchemists    habitually 
apologise,^f6r  their  vagueness  on  the  plea  that  such 
mighty  s^i^v:s  may  not  be  made  more  fully  manifest. 
It  is  true,  oi'  course,  that  in  the  days  of  Alchemy  s 
degeneracy  a  good  deal  of  pseudo-mystical  nonsense 
was    written   by  the    many  impostors  then   abound- 
ing, but  the  mystical  style  of  language  is  by  no  means 
confined  to  the  later  alchemistic  writings.     It  is  also 

3  T/ie  Sophie  Hydrolith ;  or.  Water  Stone  of  the  Wise  (see   The 
Hermetic  Museuin^  so\.  i.   p.   74). 

4  The  Triumphal  Chariot  of  Antimony  (Mr.  A.  E.  Waite's  transla- 
tion, p.  13).     See  §  41. 


6  ALCHEMY  [§  5 

true  that  the  alchemists,  no  doubt,  desired  to  shield 
their  secrets  from  vulgar  and  profane  eyes,  and  hence 
would  necessarily  adopt  a  symbolic  language.  But  it 
is  past  belief  that  the  language  of  the  alchemist  was 
due  to  some  arbitrary  plan  ;  whatever  it  is  to  us,  it 
was  very  real  to  him.  Moreover,  this  argument  cuts 
both  ways,  for  those,  also,  who  take  a  transcendental 
view  of  Alchemy  regard  its  language  as  symbolical, 
although  after  a  different  manner.  It  is  also,  to  say 
the  least,  curious,  as  Mr.  A.  E.  Waite  points  out,  that 
this  mystical  element  should  be  found  in  the  writings 
of  the  earlier  alchemists,  whose  manuscripts  were  not 
written  for  publication,  and  therefore  ran  no  risk 
of  informing  the  vulgar  of  the  precious  secrets  of 
Alchemy.  On  the  other  hand,  the  transcendental 
method  of  translation  does  often  succeed  in  making 
sense  out  of  what  is  otherwise  unintelligible  in  the 
writings  of  the  alchemists.  The  above-mentioned 
writer  remarks  on  this  point :  "  Without  in  any  way 
pretending  to  assert  that  this  hypothesis  reduces  the 
literary  chaos  of  the  philosophers  into  a  regular  order, 
it  may  be  affirmed  that  it  materially  elucidates  their 
writings,  and  that  it  is  wonderful  how  coihtradictions, 
absurdities,  and  difficulties  seem  to  dissofeVe  wherever 
it  is  applied."  5 

The  alchemists'  love  of  symbolism  is  also  con- 
spicuously displayed  in  the  curious  designs  with  which 
certain  of  their  books  are  embellished.  We  are  not 
here  referring  to  the  illustrations  of  actual  apparatus 
employed  in  carrying  out  the  various  operations  of 
physical  Alchemy,  which  are  not  infrequently  found 
in  the  works  of  those  alchemists  who  at  the  same  time 
5  Arthur  Edward  Waite  :   TJie  Occult  Sciences  (1891),  p.  91. 


§  7]     THE  MEANING  OF  ALCHEMY         7 

were  practical  chemists  (Glauber,  for  example),  but  to 

pictures   whose   meaning   plainly  lies   not   upon   the 

surface     and    whose    import    is    clearly   symbolical, 

whether  their  symbolism  has  reference  to  physical  or 

to  spiritual  processes.     Examples  of  such   symbolic 

illustrations,  many  of  which  are  highly  fantastic,  will 

be  found  in  plates  2,  3,  and  4.    We  shall  refer  to  them 

again  in   the   course   of  the  present   and   following 

chapters. 

§  6.  We   must  also    notice    that,   although    there 

cannot  be  the  slightest  doubt  that  the  great  majority 

of  alchemists  were  engaged  in  problems 

Alchemists  of  ^j^j  experiments  of  a  physical  nature,  yet 
a  Mystical        ,  ^  .  .     ,    1    1      •  1  •      1 

Type.        there  were  a  few  men  mcluded  witnm  the 

alchemistic  ranks  who  were  entirely,  or 

almost  entirely,  concerned  with  problems  of  a  spiritual 

nature ;  Thomas  Vaughan,    for    example,  and  Jacob 

Boehme,    who    boldly    employed    the    language    of 

Alchemy  in  the  elaboration  of  his  system  of  mystical 

philosophy.     And  particularly  must  we  notice,  as  Mr. 

A.  E.  Waite  has  also  indicated,   the  significant  fact 

that  the  Western  alchemists  make  unanimous  appeal 

to  Hermes  Trismegistos  as  the  greatest  authority  on 

the  art  of  Alchemy,  whose  alleged  writings  are  of  an 

undoubtedly  mystical  character  (see  §  29).     It  is  clear, 

that  in  spite  of  its  apparently  physical  nature.  Alchemy 

must  have  been  in  some  way  closely  connected  with 

Mysticism. 

§  7,  If  we  are  ever  to  understand  the  meaning  of 

Alchemy  aright  we  must  look  at  the  subject  from  the 

alchemistic  point  of  view.      In   modern  times  there 

has   come   about    a    divorce    between    Religion    and 

Science  in  men's  minds  (though  more  recently  a  uni- 


8  ALCHEMY  [§  8 

fying  tendency  has  set  in) ;  but  it  was  otherwise  with 
the  alchemists,  their  religion  and  their  science  were 
closely  united.  We  have  said  that 
of\lchemy^  **  Alchemy  was  the  attempt  to  demon- 
strate experimentally  on  the  material 
plane  the  validity  of  a  certain  philosophical  view  of 
the  Cosmos " ;  now,  this  "  philosophical  view  of  the 
Cosmos"  was  Mysticism.  Alchemy  had  its  origin 
in  the  attempt  to  apply,  in  a  certain  manner,  the 
principles  of  Mysticism  to  the  things  of  the  physical 
plane,  and  was,  therefore,  of  a  dual  nature,  on  the  one 
hand  spiritual  and  religious,  on  the  other,  physical 
and  material.  As  the  anonymous  author  of  Lives  of 
Alchemystical  Philosophers  (1815)  remarks,  "The 
universal  chemistry,  by  which  the  science  of  alchemy 
opens  the  knowledge  of  all  nature,  being  founded  on 
first  principles  forms  analogy  with  whatever  know- 
ledge is  founded  on  the  same  first  principles,  .  .  . 
Saint  John  describes  the  redemption,  or  the  new 
creation  of  the  fallen  soul,  on  the  same  first  principles, 
until  the  consummation  of  the  work,  in  which  the 
Divine  tincture  transmutes  the  base  metal  of  the  soul 
into  a  perfection,  that  will  pass  the  fire  of  eternity  ;  '*  ^ 
that  is  to  say.  Alchemy  and  the  mystical  regeneration 
of  man  (in  this  writer's  opinion)  are  analogous  pro- 
cesses on  different  planes  of  being,  because  they  are 
founded  on  the  same  first  principles. 

§  8.  We  shall  here  quote  the  opinions  of  two 
modern  writers,  as  to  the  significance  of  Alchemy  ; 
one  a  mystic,  the  other  a  man  of  science.  Says  Mr. 
A.  E.  Waite,  *'  If  the  authors  of  the  *  Suggestive 
Inquiry '  and  of  *  Remarks  on  Alchemy  and  the 
^  F.  B.  :  Lives  of  Alchemystical  Philosophers  (1815),  Preface,  p.  3. 


§  8]     THE  MEANING   OF  ALCHEMY         9 

Alchemists '  [two  books  putting  forward  the  transcen- 
dental theory]  had  considered  the  lives  of  the  sym- 
bolists, as  well  as  the  nature  of  the 
otiiw^  Wri  Jrs.  symbols,  their  views  would  have  been  very 
much  modified ;  they  would  have  found 
that  the  true  method  of  Hermetic  interpretation  lies 
in  a  middle  course  ;  but  the  errors  which  originated 
with  merely  typographical  investigations  were  inten- 
sified by  a  consideration  of  the  great  alchemical 
theorem,  which,  par  excellence,  is  one  of  universal 
development,  which  acknowledges  that  every  sub- 
stance contains  undeveloped  resources  and  poten- 
tialities, and  can  be  brought  outward  and  forward 
into  perfection.  They  [the  generality  of  alchemists] 
applied  their  theory  only  to  the  development  of 
metallic  substances  from  a  lower  to  a  higher  order, 
but  we  see  by  their  writings  that  the  grand 
hierophants  of  Oriental  and  Western  alchemy  alike 
were  continually  haunted  by  brief  and  imperfect 
glimpses  of  glorious  possibilities  for  man,  if  the  evolu- 
tion of  his  nature  were  accomplished  along  the  lines  of 
their    theory."?      Mr.   M.    M.    Pattison   Muir,   M.A., 

7  Arthur  Edward  Waite  ;  Lives  of  Alchemy stical  Philosophers 
(i888),  pp.  30,  31.  As  says  another  writer  of  the  mystical  school  of 
thought :  "  If  we  look  upon  the  subject  [of  Alchymy]  from  the  point 
which  affords  the  widest  view,  it  may  be  said  that  Alchymy  has  two 
aspects  :  the  simply  material,  and  the  religious.  The  dogma  that 
Alchymy  was  only  a  form  of  chemistry  is  untenable  by  any  one  who 
has  read  the  works  of  its  chief  professors.  The  doctrine  that 
Alchymy  was  religion  only,  and  that  its  chemical  references  were  all 
blinds,  is  equally  untenable  in  the  face  of  history,  which  shows  that 
many  of  its  most  noted  professors  were  men  who  had  made  important 
discoveries  in  the  domain  of  common  chemistry,  and  were  in  no  way 
notable  as  teachers  either  of  ethics  or  religion  "  ("  Sapere  Aude,"  The 
Science  of  Alchymy^  Spiritual  and  Material  (1893),  pp.  3  and  4). 


10  ALCHEMY  [§  9 

says  :**...  alchemy  aimed  at  giving  experimental 
proof  of  a  certain  theory  of  the  whole  system  of 
nature,  including  humanity.  The  practical  culmina- 
tion of  the  alchemical  quest  presented  a  threefold 
aspect;  the  alchemists  sought  the  stone  of  wisdom, 
for  by  gaining  that  they  gained  the  control  of  wealth  ; 
they  sought  the  universal  panacea,  for  that  would 
give  them  the  power  of  enjoying  wealth  and  life  ;  they 
sought  the  soul  of  the  world,  for  thereby  they  could 
hold  communion  with  spiritual  existences,  and  enjoy 
the  fruition  of  spiritual  life.  The  object  of  their 
search  was  to  satisfy  their  material  needs,  their  intel- 
lectual capacities,  and  their  spiritual  yearnings.  The 
alchemists  of  the  nobler  sort  always  made  the  first  of 
these  objects  subsidiary  to  the  other  two.  .  .  ."  ^ 

§  9.  The  famous  axiom  beloved  by  every  alchemist 

— "  What  is  above  is  as  that  which  is  below,  and  what 

is  below  is  as  that  which  is  above  " — although  of  ques- 

able   origin,   tersely  expresses  the  basic 

^of -^hemy^*  ^^^^  ^^  Alchemy.  The  alchemists  postu- 
lated and  believed  in  a  very  real  sense  in 
the  essential  unity  of  the  Cosmos.  Hence,  they  held 
that  there  is  a  correspondence  or  analogy  existing 
between  things  spiritual  and  things  physical,  the  same 
laws  operating  in  each  realm.  As  writes  Sendivogius 
"...  the  Sages  have  been  taught  of  God  that  this 
natural  world  is  only  an  image  and  material  copy  of  a 
heavenly  and  spiritual  pattern  ;  that  the  very  existence 
of  this  world  is  based  upon  the  reality  of  its  celestial 
archetype  ;  and  that  God  has  created  it  in  imitation  of 
the  spiritual  and  invisible  universe,  in  order  that  men 

2  M.  M.  Pattison  Muir,  M.A.  :  The  Story  oj  Alchemy  and  the 
Beginnings  of  Chemistry  (1902),  pp.   105  and  106. 


§  9]     THE   MEANING  OF  ALCHEMY        11 

might  be  the  better  enabled  to  comprehend  His 
heavenly  teaching,  and  the  wonders  of  His  absolute 
and  ineffable  power  and  wisdom.  Thus  the  Sage 
sees  heaven  reflected  in  Nature  as  in  a  mirror ;  and 
he  pursues  this  Art,  not  for  the  sake  of  gold  or  silver, 
but  for  the  love  of  the  knowledge  which  it  reveals ; 
he  jealously  conceals  it  from  the  sinner  and  the  scorn- 
ful, lest  the  mysteries  of  heaven  should  be  laid  bare  to 
the  vulgar  gaze."  9 

The  alchemists  held  that  the  metals  are  one  in 
essence,  and  spring  from  the  same  seed  in  the  womb 
of  nature,  but  are  not  all  equally  matured  and  perfect, 
gold  being  the  highest  product  of  Nature's  powers. 
In  gold,  the  alchemist  saw  a  picture  of  the  regenerate 
man,  resplendent  with  spiritual  beauty,  overcoming  all 
temptations  and  proof  against  evil ;  whilst  he  regarded 
lead — the  basest  of  the  metals — as  typical  of  the  sinful 
and  unregenerate  man,  stamped  with  the  hideousness 
of  sin  and  easily  overcome  by  temptation  and  evil ; 
for  whilst  gold  withstood  the  action  of  fire  and  all 
known  corrosive  liquids  (save  aqua  regia  alone),  lead 
was  most  easily  acted  upon.  We  are  told  that  the 
Philosopher's  Stone,  which  would  bring  about  the 
desired  grand  transmutation,  is  of  a  species  with  gold 
itself  and  purer  than  the  purest ;  understood  in  the 
mystical  sense  this  means  that  the  regeneration  of 
man  can  be  effected  only  by  Goodness  itself — in  terms 
of  Christian  theology,  by  the  Power  of  the  Spirit  of 
Christ.  The  Philosopher's  Stone  was  regarded  as  sym- 
bolical of  Christ  Jesus,  and  in  this  sense  we  can  under- 
stand the  otherwise  incredible  powers  attributed  to  it. 

9  Michael  Sendivogius  :  The  New  Chemical  Lights  Ft.  II. ^  Con- 
cerning Sulphm  {The  Hermetic  Museum^  vol.  ii.  p.  138). 


12  ALCHEMY  [§  10 

§  10.  With  the  theories  of  physical   Alchemy   we 

shall   deal   at   length   in   the   following    chapter,   but 

enough    has  been     said  to    indicate   the 
The  Law  of  i  •     •  t  i 

Analogy.       analogy     existing,      according      to      the 

alchemistic  view,  between  the  problem 
of  the  perfection  of  the  metals,  i.e.y  the  transmu- 
tation of  the  *'  base "  metals  into  gold,  and  the 
perfection  or  transfiguration  of  spiritual  man ;  and  it 
might  also  be  added,  between  these  problems  and  that 
of  the  perfection  of  man  considered  physiologically. 
To  the  alchemistic  philosopher  these  three  problems 
were  one  :  the  same  problem  on  different  planes  of 
being  ;  and  the  solution  was  likewise  one.  He  who 
held  the  key  to  one  problem  held  the  key  to  all 
three,  provided  he  understood  the  analogy  between 
matter  and  spirit.  The  point  is  not,  be  it  noted, 
whether  these  problems  are  in  reality  one  and  the 
same  ;  the  main  doctrine  of  analogy,  which  is,  indeed, 
an  essential  element  in  all  true  mystical  philosophy, 
will,  we  suppose,  meet  with  general  consent ;  but  it  will 
be  contended  (and  rightly,  we  think)  that  the  analogies 
drawn  by  the  alchemists  are  fantastic  and  by  no 
means  always  correct,  though  possibly  there  may  be 
more  truth  in  them  than  appears  at  first  sight.  The 
point  is  not  that  these  analogies  are  correct,  but  that 
they  were  regarded  as  such  by  all  true  alchemists. 
Says  the  author  of  The  Sophie  Hydrolith:  ''.  .  .  the 
practice  of  this  Art  enables  us  to  understand,  not 
merely  the  marvels  of  Nature,  but  the  nature  of 
God  Himself,  in  all  its  unspeakable  glory.  It  shadows 
forth,  in  a  wonderful  manner  ...  all  the  articles  of 
the  Christian  faith,  and  the  reason  why  man  must 
pass  through  much  tribulation  and  anguish,  and  fall 


§  11]    THE   MEANING   OF   ALCHEMY      13 

a  prey  to  death,  before  he  can  rise  again  to  a 
new  life."  ^°  A  considerable  portion  of  this  curious 
alchemistic  work  is  taken  up  in  expounding  the 
analogy  believed  to  exist  between  the  Philosopher's 
Stone  and  "the  Stone  which  the  builders  rejected," 
Christ  Jesus ;  and  the  writer  concludes  :  "  Thus  .  .  . 
I  have  briefly  and  simply  set  forth  to  you  the  perfect 
analogy  which  exists  between  our  earthly  and  chemi- 
cal and  the  true  and  heavenly  Stone,  Jesus  Christ, 
whereby  we  may  attain  unto  certain  beatitude  and 
perfection,  not  only  in  earthly  but  also  in  eternal 
life." "  And  likewise  says  Peter  Bonus  :  **  I  am 
firmly  persuaded  that  any  unbeliever  who  got  truly 
to  know  this  Art,  would  straightway  confess  the 
truth  of  our  Blessed  Religion,  and  believe  in  the 
Trinity  and  in  our   Lord  Jesus  Christ.'*  ^2 

§  11.  For  the  most  part,  the  alchemists  were  chiefly 

engaged    with   the   carrying   out   of    the  alchemistic 

theory   on  the  physical  plane,  i.e.,  with 

The  Dual      ^^    attempt    to    transmute    the  **  base  " 

Nature  of  1     •  i       .,       1  1    „ 

Alchemy.       nietals  mto  the  "  noble     ones  ;  some  for 

the    love    of  knowledge,  but    alas!    the 

vast  majority  for  the  love  of  mere  wealth.     But  all 

who  were  worthy  of  the  title  of  **  alchemist  "  realised 

at  times,   more  or  less  dimly,  the  possibility  of  the 

application   of  the   same   methods  to  man    and    the 

glorious  result  of  the    transmutation  of  man's    soul 

into  spiritual    gold.     There  were  a  few  who  had  a 

^°  The  Sophie  Hydrolith  ;  or,  Water  Stone  of  the  Wise  (see  The 
Hermetic  Museum,  vol.   i.  p.  88). 

"  Ibid,  p.  114. 

"  Peter  Bonus:  The  New  Pearl  of  Great  Price  (Mr.  A.  E. 
Waite's  translation,  p.  275). 


14  ALCHEMY  [§  12 

clearer  vision  of  this  ideal,  those  who  devoted  their 
activities  entirely,  or  almost  so,  to  the  attainment  of 
this  highest  goal  of  alchemistic  philosophy,  and  con- 
cerned themselves  little  if  at  all  with  the  analogous 
problem  on  the  physical  plane.  The  theory  that 
Alchemy  originated  in  the  attempt  to  demonstrate  the 
applicability  of  the  principles  of  Mysticism  to  the  things 
of  the  physical  realm  brings  into  harmony  the  physical 
and  transcendental  theories  of  Alchemy  and  the 
various  conflicting  facts  advanced  in  favour  of  each. 
It  explains  the  existence  of  the  above-mentioned, 
two  very  different  types  of  alchemists.  It  explains 
the  appeal  to  the  works  attributed  to  Hermes,  and 
the  presence  in  the  writings  of  the  alchemists  of 
much  that  is  clearly  mystical.  And  finally,  it  is  in 
agreement  with  such  statements  as  we  have  quoted 
above  from  The  Sophie  Hydrolith  and  elsewhere, 
and  the  general  religious  tone  of  the  alchemistic 
writings. 

§  12.  In  accordance    with    our  primary  object  as 
stated  in  the  preface,  we  shall  confine  our  attention 

mainly  to  the  physical  aspect  of  Alchemy ; 
andSpiriV'     ^^^  ^^  order  to  understand  its  theories, 

it  appears  to  us  to  be  essential  to  realise 
the  fact  that  Alchemy  was  an  attempted  application 
of  the  principles  of  Mysticism  to  the  things  of  the 
physical  world.  The  supposed  analogy  between 
man  and  the  metals  sheds  light  on  what  otherwise 
would  be  very  difficult  to  understand.  It  helps  to 
make  plain  why  the  alchemists  attributed  moral 
qualities  to  the  metals — some  are  called  **  imperfect," 
"base";  others  are  said  to  be  ** perfect,'*  ** noble." 
And  especially  does  it  help  to  explain  the  alchemistic 


:.ATE   2. 


SYMBOLICAL    ILLUSTRATION 

Representing  the 
Trinity  of  Body,  Soul  and  Spirit. 


[To  face  page  15 


§13]    THE  MEANING  OF  ALCHEMY      15 

notions  regarding  the  nature  of  the  metals.  The 
alchemists  believed  that  the  metals  were  constructed 
after  the  manner  of  man,  into  whose  constitution 
three  factors  were  regarded  as  entering  :  body,  soul, 
and  spirit.  As  regards  man,  mystical  philosophers 
generally  use  these  terms  as  follows  :  **  body  "  is  the 
outward  manifestation  and  form;  '*soul"  is  the  in- 
ward individual  spirit  '3 ;  and  "  spirit "  is  the  universal 
Soul  in  all  men.  And  likewise,  according  to  the 
alchemists,  in  the  metals,  there  is  the  '*  body  '*  or  out- 
ward form  and  properties,  "  metalline  soul "  or  spirit, ^4 
and  finally,  the  all-pervading  essence  of  all  metals.  As 
writes  Nicholas  Barnaud,  in  his  exceedingly  curious 
tract  entitled  The  Book  of  Lamb  spring  :  "  Be  warned 
and  understand  truly  that  two  fishes  are  swimming  in 
our  sea,"  illustrating  his  remark  by  the  symbolical 
picture  reproduced  in  plate  2,  and  adding  in  elu- 
cidation thereof,  '*  The  Sea  is  the  Body,  the  two 
Fishes  are  Soul  and  Spirit."  ^5  The  alchemists, 
however,  were  not  always  consistent  in  their  use  of 
the  term  **  spirit."  Sometimes  (indeed  frequently) 
they  employed  it  to  denote  merely  the  more  volatile 
portions  of  a  chemical  substance  ;  at  other  times  it 
had  a  more  interior  significance. 

§  13.  We  notice  the  great  difference  between  the 

^3  Which,  in  virtue  of  man's  self-consciousness,  is,  by  the  grace  of 
God,  immortal. 

*4  See  the  work  Oj  Natural  and  Supernatural  Things^  attributed 
to  " Basil  Valentine,"  for  a  description  of  the  "spirits "  of  the  metals 
in  particular. 

'5  Nicholas  Barnaud  Dselphinas  :  The  Book  of  Lambspring 
(see  the  Hermetic  Museum^  vol.  i.  p.  277).  This  work  contains 
many  other  fantastic  alchemistic  symbolical  pictures,  probably  the 
most  curious  series  in  all  alchemistic  literature 


16  ALCHEMY  [§  13 

alchemistic  theory  and  the  views  regarding  the  con- 
stitution of  matter  which  have  dominated  Chemistry 
j^  ,  since  the  time  of  Dalton.       But  at  the 

Mysticism  present  time  Dalton's  theory  of  the 
and  Modern  chemical  elements  is  undergoing  a  pro- 
cience.  found  modification.  We  do  not  imply 
that  Modern  Science  is  going  back  to  any  such  fan- 
tastic ideas  as  were  held  by  the  alchemists,  but  we 
are  struck  with  the  remarkable  similarity  between 
this  alchemistic  theory  of  a  soul  of  all  metals,  a 
one  primal  element,  and  modern  views  regarding 
the  ether  of  space.  In  its  attempt  to  demonstrate 
the  applicability  of  the  fundamental  principles  of  Mys- 
ticism to  the  things  of  the  physical  realm  Alchemy 
apparently  failed  and  ended  its  days  in  fraud.  It 
appears,  however,  that  this  true  aim  of  alchemistic 
art — particularly  the  demonstration  of  the  validity  of 
the  theory  that  all  the  various  forms  of  matter  are 
produced  by  an  evolutionary  process  from  some  one 
primal  element  or  quintessence — is  being  realised  by 
recent  researches  in  the  domain  of  physical  and 
chemical  science. 


CHAPTER  II 

THE  THEORY  OF  PHYSICAL  ALCHEMY 

§  14.  It  must  be  borne  in  mind  when  reviewing  the 
theories  of  the  alchemists,  that  there  were  a  number 
SuDDosedi      ^^  phenomena   known  at  the  time,   the 
Proofs  of      superficial   examination  of  vfhxph  would 
Trans-        naturally    engender    9    belief    that    the 
transmutation  of  the  metals  was  a  com- 
mon   occurrence.     For    example,    the    deposition    of 
copper  on  iron  when  immersed   in   a   solution  of  a 
copper  salt  (e.g-.,  blue  vitriol)  was  naturally  concluded 
to  be  a  transmutation  of  iron  into  copper,  ^  although, 
had  the  alchemists  examined  the  residual  liquid,  they 
would  have  found  that  the  two  metals  had  merely 
exchanged  places ;  and  the  fact  that  white  and  yellow 
alloys   of  copper  with  arsenic  and  other  substances 
could  be  produced,  pointed  to  the  possibility  of  trans- 
muting  copper   into   silver   and   gold.      It  was   also 
known  that  if  water  (and  this  is  true  of  distilled  water 
which  does  not  contain  solid  matter  in  solution)  was 
boiled   for   some   time  in  a  glass   flask,  some   solid, 
earthy  matter  was  produced  ;  and  if  water  could  be 
transmuted    into    earth,    surely   one   metal   could   be 

^  Cf.  TAe  Golden  Tract  concerning  the  Stone  of  the  Philosophers 
(The  Hermetic  Museum^  vol.  i.  p.  25). 

3  " 


18  ALCHEMY  [§  15 

converted  into  another. 2  On  account  of  these  and 
like  phenomena  the  alcher.ists  regarded  the  trans- 
mutation of  the  metals  as  an  experimentally  proved 
fact.  Even  if  they  are  to  be  blamed  for  their  super- 
ficial observation  of  such  phenomena,  yet,  never- 
theless, their  labours  marked  a  distinct  advance  upon 
the  purely  speculative  and  theoretical  methods  of  the 
philosophers  preceding  them.  Whatever  their  faults, 
the  alchemists  were  the  forerunners  of  modern  experi- 
mental science. 

§  15.  The  alchemists  regarded  the  metals  as  com- 
posite, and  granting  this,  then  the  possibility  of  trans- 
mutation is  only  a  logical  conclusion.     In 

The  order  to  understand  the   theory  of  the 

Aicnemistic  1    1  1  i        1  .1 

Elements.  eieinents  held  by  them  we  must  rid  our- 
selves of  any  idea  that  it  bears  any 
close  resemblance  to  Dalton's  theory  of  the  chemical 
elements  ;  this  is  clear  from  what  has  been  said  in 
the  preceding  chapter.  Now,  it  is  a  fact  of  simple 
observation  that  many  otherwise  different  bodies 
manifest  some  property  in  common,  as,  for  instance, 
combustibility.  Properties  such  as  these  were 
regarded  as  being  due  to  some  principle  or  element 
common  to  all  bodies  exhibiting  such  properties  ; 
thus,  combustibility  was  thought  to  be  due  to  some 
elementary  principle  of  combustion — the  '*  sulphur  " 
of  the  alchemists  and  the  *' phlogiston "  of  a  later 
period.  This  is  a  view  which  a  priori  appears  to  be 
not  unlikely  ;  but  it  is  now  known  that,  although  there 
are  relations  existing  between  the  properties  of  bodies 

*  Lavoisier  (eighteenth  century)  proved  this  apparent  transmu- 
tation to  be  due  to  the  action  of  the  water  on  the  glass  vessel 
containing  it. 


§  16]  PHYSICAL  ALCHEMY  19 

and  their  constituent  chemical  elements  (and  also,  it 
should  be  noted,  the  relative  arrangement  of  the 
particles  of  these  elements),  it  is  the  less  obvious 
properties  which  enable  chemists  to  determine  the 
constitution  of  bodies,  and  the  connection  is  very  far 
from  being  of  the  simple  nature  imagined  by  the 
alchemists. 

§  16.  For  the  origin  of  the  alchemistic  theory  of  the 
elements  it  is  necessary  to  go  back  to  the  philosophers 

.  .      .  ,       preceding  the   alchemists,  and  it  is  not 

Views         improbable    that    they   derived    it   from 

regarding  the    some  still  older  source.     It  was  taught 

emen  s.       ^^    Empedocles    of  Agrigent    (440  B.C. 

circa),  who  considered  that  there  were  four  elements — 

earth,  water,  air,   and  fire.     Aristotle  added  a  fifth, 

*'  the  ether."     These  elements  were  regarded,  not  as 

different  kinds  of  matter,  but  rather  as  different  forms 

of  the   one   original   matter,   whereby   it   manifested 

different   properties.     It   was   thought   that  to  these 

elements   were   due   the   four   primary  properties   of 

dryness,     moistness,     warmth,     and     coldness,     each 

element  being  supposed  to  give  rise  to  two  of  these 

properties,  dryness  and  warmth  being  thought  to  be 

due  to  fire,  moistness  and  warmth  to  air,  moistness 

and  coldness  to  water,  and  dryness  and  coldness  to 

earth.      Thus,    moist    and    cold    bodies    (liquids    in 

general)  were   said    to   possess    these    properties  in 

consequence  of  the  aqueous  element,  and  were  termed 

"  waters,"  &c.     Also,  since  these  elements  were  not 

regarded  as  different  kinds  of  matter,  transmutation 

was   thought   to   be   possible,    one  being  convertible 

into     another,    as     in    the     example     given     above 

(§  14). 


20  ALCHEMY  [§  17 

§  17.  Coming  to  the  alchemists,  we  find  the  view 
that  the  metals  are  all  composed  of  two  elementary- 
principles — sulphur      and      mercury — in 

The  Sulphur-    different    proportions     and     dee^rees    of 
Mercury  .  n     •   i  •  n  , 

Theory.        purity,    well-nigh     universally    accepted 

in  the  earlier  days  of  Alchemy.  By 
these  terms  *' sulphur"  and  **  mercury,*'  however, 
must  not  be  understood  the  common  bodies  ordinarily- 
designated  by  these  names  ;  like  the  elements  of 
Aristotle,  the  alchemistic  principles  were  regarded  as 
properties  rather  than  as  substances,  though  it  must 
be  confessed  that  the  alchemists  were  by  no  means 
always  clear  on  this  point  themselves.  Indeed,  it  is 
not  altogether  easy  to  say  exactly  what  the  alchemists 
did  mean  by  these  terms,  and  the  question  is  com- 
plicated by  the  fact  that  very  frequently  they  make 
mention  of  different  sorts  of  *'sulphur"and  ''mercury." 
Probably,  however,  we  shall  not  be  far  wrong  in 
saying  that  "  sulphur  "  was  generally  regarded  as  the 
principle  of  combustion  and  also  of  colour,  and  was 
said  to  be  present  on  account  of  the  fact  that  most 
metals  are  changed  into  earthy  substances  by  the  aid 
of  fire  ;  and  to  the  ''  mercury,"  the  metallic  principle 
par  excellence,  was  attributed  such  properties  as 
fusibility,  malleability  and  lustre,  which  were  regarded 
as  characteristic  of  the  metals  in  general.  The 
pseudo-Geber  (see  §  32)  says  that  ''  Sulphur  is  a 
fatness  of  the  Earth,  by  temperate  Decoction  in  the 
Mine  of  the  Earth  thickened,  until  it  be  hardned  and 
made  dry."  3  He  considered  an  excess  of  sulphur  to 
be  a  cause  of  imperfection  in  the  metals,  and  he  writes 

3  Of  the  Sum  of  Perfection  (see  The   Works  of  Geber^  translated 
by  Richard  Russel,  1678,  pp.  69  and  70). 


§  17]  PHYSICAL   ALCHEMY  21 

that  one  of  the  causes  of  the  corruption  of  the  metals 
by  fire  **  is  the  Inclusion  of  a  burning  Sulphuriety  in 
the  profundity  of  their  Substance,  diminishing  them  by 
Inflamation,  and  exterminating  also  into  Fume,  with 
extream  Consumption,  whatsoever  Argentvive  in 
them  is  of  good  Fixation.'*  4  He  assumed,  further, 
that  the  metals  contained  an  incombustible  as  well 
as  a  combustible  sulphur,  the  latter  sulphur  being 
apparently  regarded  as  an  impurity.  5  A  later 
alchemist  says  that  sulphur  is  **  most  easily  recog- 
nised by  the  vital  spirit  in  animals,  the  colour  in 
metals,  the  odour  in  plants." ^  Mercury,  on  the 
other  hand,  according  to  the  pseudo-Geber,  is  the 
cause  of  perfection  in  the  metals,  and  endows  gold 
with  its  lustre.  Another  alchemist,  quoting  Arnold 
de  Villanova,  writes  :  "  Quicksilver  is  the  elementary 
form  of  all  things  fusible  ;  for  all  things  fusible,  when 
melted,  are  changed  into  it,  and  it  mingles  with  them 
because  it  is  of  the  same  substance  with  them.  Such 
bodies  differ  from  quicksilver  in  their  composition 
only  so  far  as  itself  is  or  is  not  free  from  the  foreign 
matter  of  impure  sulphur."  7  The  obtaining  of 
"  philosophical  mercury,"  the  imaginary  virtues  of 
which  the  alchemists  never  tired  of  relating,  was 
generally  held  to  be  essential  for  the  attainment  of 
the  magnum  opus.  It  was  commonly  thought  that  it 
could    be    prepared    from    ordinary    quicksilver    by 

4  Of  the  Sum  of  Perfection  (see  The  Works  of  Geber,  p.  156). 

5  See  The  Works  of  Geber ^  p.  160.  This  view  was  also  held  by 
other  alchemists. 

^  The  New  Chemical  Lights  Part  II.,  Concerning  Sulphur  (see  The 
Hermetic  Museum^  vol.  ii.  p.  151). 

7  See  Th£  Golden  Tract  concerning  the  Stone  of  the  Philosophers 
{The  Hermetic  Museum^  vol.  i.  p.  17). 


22  ALCHEMY  [§  18 

purificatory  processes,  whereby  the  impure  sulphur 
supposed  to  be  present  in  this  sort  of  mercury  might 
be  purged  away. 

The  sulphur-mercury  theory  of  the  metals  was  held 
by  such  famous  alchemists  as  Roger  Bacon,  Arnold 
de  Villanova  and  Raymond  Lully.  Until  recently  it 
was  thought  to  have  originated  to  a  great  extent  with 
the  Arabian  alchemist,  Geber  ;  but  the  late  Professor 
Berthelot  showed  that  the  works  ascribed  to  Geber,  in 
which  the  theory  is  put  forward,  are  forgeries  of  a 
date  by  which  it  was  already  centuries  old  (see  §  32). 
Occasionally,  arsenic  was  regarded  as  an  elementary 
principle  (this  view  is  to  be  found,  for  example,  in  the 
work  Of  the  Sum  of  Perfection,  by  the  pseudo-Geber), 
but  the  idea  was  not  general. 

§  18.  Later  in  the  history  of  Alchemy,  the  mercury- 
sulphur  theory  was  extended  by  the  addition  of  a 
third  elementary  principle,    salt.     As  in 

The  Sulphur-    ^^   ^^se  of    philosophical    sulphur    and 
Mercury-Salt  1         1  • 

Theory        mercury,    by    this    term    was    not  meant 

common  salt  (sodium  chloride)  or  any  of 
those  substances  commonly  known  as  salts.  "Salt" 
was  the  name  given  to  a  supposed  basic  principle 
in  the  metals,  a  principle  of  fixity  and  solidification, 
conferring  the  property  of  resistance  to  fire.  In 
this  extended  form,  the  theory  is  found  in  the  works 
of  Isaac  of  Holland  and  in  those  attributed  to  *'  Basil 
Valentine,"  who  (see  the  work  Of  Natural  and  Super- 
natural Things)  attempts  to  explain  the  differences 
in  the  properties  of  the  metals  as  the  result  of  the 
differences  in  the  proportion  of  sulphur,  salt,  and 
mercury  they  contain.  Thus,  copper,  which  is  highly 
coloured,  is  said  to  contain  much  sulphur,  whilst  iron 


§  19]  PHYSICAL   ALCHEMY  23 

is  supposed  to  contain  an  excess  of  salt,  &c.  The 
sulphur-mercury-salt  theory  was  vigorously  cham- 
pioned by  Paracelsus,  and  the  doctrine  gained  very 
general  acceptance  amongst  the  alchemists.  Salt, 
however,  seems  generally  to  have  been  considered 
a  less  important  principle  than  either  mercury  or 
sulphur. 

The  same  germ-idea  underlying  these  doctrines 
is  to  be  found  much  later  in  Stahl's  phlogistic 
theory  (eighteenth  century),  which  attempted  to 
account  for  the  combustibility  of  bodies  by  the 
assumption  that  such  bodies  all  contain  ** phlogiston" 
— the  hypothetical  principleof  combustion  (see  §  72) — 
though  the  concept  of  "  phlogiston  "  approaches  more 
nearly  to  the  modern  idea  of  an  element  than  do  the 
alchemistic  elements  or  principles.  It  was  not  until 
still  later  in  the  history  of  Chemistry  that  it  became 
quite  evident  that  the  more  obvious  properties  of 
chemical  substances  are  not  specially  conferred  on 
them  in  virtue  of  certain  elements  entering  into  their 
constitution. 

§  19.  The  alchemists  combined  the  above  theories 

with  Aristotle's  theory  of  the  elements.     The  latter, 

namely,  earth,  air,  fire  and  water,  were 

Alchemistic     resfarded  as  more  interior,  more  primary. 
Elements  and      ^^        .  .      .   1  , 

Principles.      ^^^^  the    prmciples,    whose   source  was 

said   to    be   these    same   elements.     As 

writes  Sendivogius  in  Part  II.  of  T^e  New  Chemical 

Light;  ''The  three  Principles  of  things  are  produced 

out   of  the   four   elements  in  the  following  manner  : 

Nature,  whose  power  is  in  her  obedience  to  the  Will 

of  God,  ordained  from  the  very  beginning,  that  the 

four  elements  should  incessantly  act  on  one  another, 


24  ALCHEMY  [§  19 

so,  in  obedience  to  her  behest,  fire  began  to  act  on 
air,  and  produced  Sulphur  ;  air  acted  on  water,  and 
produced  Mercury  ;  water,  by  its  action  on  the  earth, 
produced  Salt.  Earth,  alone,  having  nothing  to  act 
upon,  did  not  produce  anything,  but  became  the  nurse, 
or  womb,  of  these  three  Principles.  We  designedly 
speak  of  three  Principles ;  for  though  the  Ancients 
mention  only  two,  it  is  clear  that  they  omitted  the 
third  (Salt)  not  from  ignorance,  but  from  a  desire 
to  lead  the  uninitiated  astray."  ^ 

Beneath  and  within  all  these  coverings  of  outward 
properties,  taught  the  alchemists,  is  hidden  the  secret 
essence  of  all  material  things.  ''  .  .  .  the  elements 
and  compounds,"  writes  one  alchemist,  *'  in  addition  to 
crass  matter,  are  composed  of  a  subtle  substance,  or 
intrinsic  radical  humidity,  diffused  through  the  ele- 
mental parts,  simple  and  wholly  incorruptible,  long 
preserving  the  things  themselves  in  vigour,  and  called 
the  Spirit  of  the  World,  proceeding  from  the  Soul  of 
the  World,  the  one  certain  life,  filling  and  fathoming 
all  things,  gathering  together  and  connecting  all 
things,  so  that  from  the  three  genera  of  creatures, 
Intellectual,  Celestial,  and  Corruptible,  there  is 
formed  the  One  Machine  of  the  whole  world."  9  It 
is  hardly  necessary  to  point  out  how  nearly  this 
approaches  modern  views  regarding  the  Ether  of 
Space. 

2  The  New  Chemical  Light,  Part  II.,  Concerning  Sulphur  (see  The 
Hermetic  Museum,  vol.  ii.  pp.  142-143). 

9  Alexander  von  Suchten  :  Man,  the  best  and  most  perfect  of 
God's  creatures.  A  more  complete  Exposition  of  this  Medical  Founda- 
tion for  the  less  Experienced  Student.  (See  Benedictus  Figulus  : 
A  Golden  and  Blessed  Casket  of  Nature's  Marvels,  translated  by 
A.  E.  Waite,  1893,  PP-  7^  ^"^  72*) 


§20]  PHYSICAL   ALCHEMY  25 

§  20.  The    alchemists    regarded     the     metals     as 
growing   in   the   womb   of  the  earth,   and   a   know- 
ledge of   this   growth  as  being  of  very 

^^'^e^Meufs  °^  ^""^^^  importance.    Thomas  Norton  (who, 
however,   contrary  to   the   generality   of 
alchemists,  denied  that   metals  have   seed  and   that 
they  grow  in  the  sense  of  multiply)  says  : — 


^^  Mettalls  of  kinde  grow  lowe  under  ground, 
For  above  erth  rust  in  them  is  found ; 
Soe  above  erth  appeareth  corruption. 
Of  mettalls,  and  in  long  tyme  destruction, 
Whereof  noe  Cause  is  found  in  this  Case, 
Buth  that  above  Erth  thei  be  not  in  their  place 
Contrarie  places  to  nature  causeth  strife 
As  Fishes  out  of  water  losen  their  Lyfe  : 
And  Man,  with  Beasts,  and  Birds  live  in  ayer. 
But  Stones  and  Mineralls  under  Erth  repaier."  ^° 

Norton  here  expresses  the  opinion,  current  among  the 
alchemists,  that  each  and  every  thing  has  its  own 
peculiar  environment  natural  to  it ;  a  view  controverted 
by  Robert  Boyle  (§71).  So  firm  was  the  belief  in 
the  growth  of  metals,  that  mines  were  frequently 
closed  for  a  while  in  order  that  the  supply  of  metal 
might  be  renewed.  The  fertility  of  Mother  Earth 
forms  the  subject  of  one  of  the  illustrations  in  Tke 
Twelve  Keys  of  *'  Basil  Valentine"  (see  §  41).  We 
reproduce  it  in  plate  3,  fig.  A.  Regarding  this 
subject,  the  author  writes  :  *'  The  quickening  power  of 
the  earth  produces  all  things  that  grow  forth  from  it, 
and   he  who  says  that  the  earth  has  no  life  makes 

'°  Thomas  Norton  :  Ordinall  of  Alchemy  (see  Theatrum  Chemi- 
cum  Britannicuniy  edited  by  Elias  Ashmole,  1652,  p.  18). 


26  ALCHEMY  [§21 

a  statement  which  is  flatly  contradicted  by  the  most 
ordinary  facts.  For  what  is  dead  cannot  produce  life 
and  growth,  seeing  that  it  is  devoid  of  the  quickeniixg 
spirit.  This  spirit  is  the  life  and  soul  that  dwell  in  the 
earth,  and  are  nourished  by  heavenly  and  sidereal 
influences.  For  all  herbs,  trees,  and  roots,  and  all 
metals  and  minerals,  receive  their  growth  and  nutri- 
ment from  the  spirit  of  the  earth,  which  is  the  spirit 
of  life.  This  spirit  is  itself  fed  by  the  stars,  and 
is  thereby  rendered  capable  of  imparting  nutriment 
to  all  things  that  grow,  and  of  nursing  them  as 
a  mother  does  her  child  while  it  is  yet  in  the  womb. 
The  minerals  are  hidden  in  the  womb  of  the  earth, 
and  nourished  by  her  with  the  spirit  which  she 
receives  from  above. 

"  Thus  the  power  of  growth  that  I  speak  of  is 
imparted  not  by  the  earth,  but  by  the  life-giving  spirit 
that  is  in  it.  If  the  earth  were  deserted  by  this  spirit,  it 
would  be  dead,  and  no  longer  able  to  afford  nourish- 
ment to  anything.  For  its  sulphur  or  richness  would 
lack  the  quickening  spirit  without  which  there  can  be 
neither  life  nor  growth."  ^^ 

§  21.  The  idea  that  the  growth  of  each  metal  was 

under   the   influence  of  one  of  the  heavenly  bodies 

(a  theory  in  harmony  with  the  alchemistic 

Astrolo^^    view  of  the  unity  of  the  Cosmos),   was 

very  generally  held  by  the   alchemists  ; 

and    in   consequence  thereof,  the    metals  were  often 

referred  to  by    the   names    or   astrological  symbols 

of  their  peculiar  planets.     These  particulars  are  shown 

in  the  following   table  : — 

"  "  Basil  Valentine  " :    The  Twelve  Keys  (see   The  Hermetic 
Museum,  vol  i.  pp.  333-334)- 


PLATE  3 


SYMBOLICAL  ILLUSTRATION 

Representing  the 
Fertility  of  tlie  Earth. 


SYMBOLICAL   ILLUSTRATION 

Representintj  the 
Amaigarnation  of  Gold  with  Mercury. 

(See  page  33-) 


Til  }tu^  fagjt  36] 


22] 


PHYSICAL  ALCHEMY 


27 


Metals. 

Planets,  &c." 

Symbols. 

Gold 

Sun 

0 

Silver 

Moon 

D 

Mercury 

Mercury 

^ 

Copper 

Venus 

? 

Iron 

Mars 

^ 

Tin 

Jupiter 

U 

Lead 

Saturn 

^ 

Moreover,  it  was  thought  by  some  alchemists  that  a 
due  observance  of  astrological  conditions  was  neces- 
sary for  successfully  carrying  out  important  alchemistic 
experiments. 

§  22.  The  alchemists  regarded  gold  as  the  most 
perfect  metal,  silver   being   considered   more  perfect 

Al  h     *  f      ^^^^  ^^^  ^^^^'     ^^^  reason  of  this  view 

View  of  the     is  not  difficult  to  understand  :  gold  is  the 

Nature  of      most  beautiful  of  all  the  metals,  and  it 

retains  its  beauty  without  tarnishing ;  it 

resists  the  action  of  fire  and  most  corrosive  liquids, 

and  is  unaffected  by  sulphur  ;  it  was  regarded,  as  we 

have  pointed  out  above  (see   §  9),   as  symbolical  of 

the  regenerate  man.     Silver,  on  the  other  hand,  is, 

indeed,  a  beautiful  metal  which  wears  well  in  a  pure 

atmosphere  and  resists  the  action  of  fire  ;  but  it  is 

attacked  by  certain   corrosives   {e,£:,   aqua  fortis  or 

nitric  acid)  and   also   by   sulphur.     Through  all  the 

metals,  from  the  one  seed,  Nature,  according  to  the 

"  This  supposed  connection  between  the  metals  and  planets  also 
played  an  important  part  in  Talismanic  Magic. 


28  ALCHEMY  [§  22 

alchemists,  works  continuously  up  to  gold  ;  so  that,  in 
a  sense,  all  other  metals  are  gold  in  the  making ;  their 
existence  marks  the  staying  of  Nature's  powers  ;  as 
**  Eirenaeus  Philalethes  "  says:  "All  metallic  seed  is 
the  seed  of  gold  ;  for  gold  is  the  intention  of  Nature  in 
regard  to  all  metals.  If  the  base  metals  are  not  gold, 
it  is  only  through  some  accidental  hindrance  ;  they 
are  all  potentially  gold."  '3  Or,  as  another  alchemist 
puts  it  :  ''Since  .  .  .  the  substance  of  the  metals  is 
one,  and  common  to  all,  and  since  this  substance  is 
(either  at  once,  or  after  laying  aside  in  course  of  time 
the  foreign  and  evil  sulphur  of  the  baser  metals  by  a 
process  of  gradual  digestion)  changed  by  the  virtue  of 
its  own  indwelling  sulphur  into  gold,  which  is  the 
goal  of  all  the  metals,  and  the  true  intention  of 
Nature — we  are  obliged  to  admit,  and  freely  confess 
that  in  the  mineral  kingdom,  as  well  as  in  the 
vegetable  and  animal  kingdoms,  Nature  seeks  and 
demands  a  gradual  attainment  of  perfection,  and  a 
gradual  approximation  to  the  highest  standard  of 
purity  and  excellence."  H  Such  was  the  alchemistic 
view  of  the  generation  of  the  metals  ;  a  theory  which 
is  admittedly  crude,  but  which,  nevertheless,  contains 
the  germ  of  a  great  principle  of  the  utmost  importance, 
namely,  the  idea  that  all  the  varying  forms  of  matter 
are  evolved  from  some  one  primordial  stuff — a 
principle  of  which  chemical  science  lost  sight  for 
awhile  ;  for  its  validity  was  unrecognised  by  Dalton's 
Atomic    Theory   (at    least,    as    enunciated    by   him), 

^3  "  EiRENiEUS  Philalethes  "  :  The  Metamorphosis  of  Metals 
(see  The  Hermetic  Museum,  vol.  ii.  p.  239). 

"*  The  Golden  Tract  Concerning  the  Stone  of  the  Philosophers 
(see    The  Hermetic  Museum,  vol.  i.  p.  19). 


§  23]  PHYSICAL   ALCHEMY  29 

but  which  is  being  demonstrated,  as  we  hope  to 
show  hereinafter,  by  recent  scientific  research.  The 
alchemist  was  certainly  a  fantastic  evolutionist,  but 
he  was  an  evolutionist,  and,  moreover,  he  did  not 
make  the  curious  and  paradoxical  mistake  of  regarding 
the  fact  of  evolution  as  explaining  away  the  existence 
of  God — the  alchemist  recognised  the  hand  of  the 
Divine  in  nature — and,  although,  in  these  days  of 
modern  science,  we  cannot  accept  his  theory  of  the 
growth  of  metals,  we  can,  nevertheless,  appreciate 
and  accept  the  fundamental  germ-idea  underly- 
ing it. 

§  23.  The  alchemist  strove  to  assist  Nature  in  her 

gold-making,  or,  at  least,  to  carry  out  her  methods. 

The  pseudo-Geber  taught  that  the  im- 

The  perfect  metals  were  to  be  perfected  or 

Philosophers    *         ,  ,        ,  i.       .  r  , .         i-  •         »» 

Stone.         cured  by  the  application  of     medicines. 

Three  forms  of  medicines  were  dis- 
tinguished ;  the  first  bring  about  merely  a  temporary 
change,  and  the  changes  wrought  by  the  second  class, 
although  permanent,  are  not  complete.  '*  A  Medicine 
of  the  third  Order,"  he  writes,  "  I  call  every  Prepara- 
tion, which,  when  it  comes  to  Bodies,  with  its  pro- 
jection, takes  away  all  Corruption,  and  perfects  them 
with  the  Difference  of  all  Compleatment.  But  this  is 
one  only."  ^5  This,  the  true  medicine  that  would 
produce  a  real  and  permanent  transmutation, 
is  the  Philosopher's  Stone,  the  Masterpiece  of 
alchemistic  art.  Similar  views  were  held  by  all  the 
alchemists,  though  some  of  them  taught  that  it  was 
necessary  first  of  all  to  reduce  the  metals  to  their  first 

'5  Of  the  Sum  of  Perfection  (see  The  Works  of  Geber,  translated 
by  Richard  Russel,  1678,  p.  192). 


30  ALCHEMY  [§  24 

substance.  Often,  two  forms  of  the  Philosopher's 
Stone  were  distinguished,  or  perhaps  we  should  say, 
two  degrees  of  perfection  in  the  one  Stone  ;  that  for 
transmuting  the  "imperfect"  metals  into  silver  being 
said  to  be  white,  the  stone  or  "  powder  of  projection  " 
for  gold  being  said  to  be  of  a  red  colour.  In  other 
accounts  (see  Chapter  V.)  the  medicine  is  described 
as  of  a  pale  brimstone  hue. 

Most  of  the  alchemists  who  claimed  knowledge  of 
the  Philosopher's  Stone  or  the  materia  prima  necessary 
for  its  preparation,  generally  kept  its  nature  most 
secret,  and  spoke  only  in  the  most  enigmatical  and 
allegorical  language,  the  majority  of  their  recipes  con- 
taining words  of  unknown  meaning.  In  some  cases 
gold  or  silver,  as  the  case  may  be,  was  employed  in 
preparing  the  "  medicine  " ;  and,  after  projection  had 
been  made,  this  was,  of  course,  obtained  again  in 
the  metallic  form,  the  alchemist  imagining  that  a 
transmutation  had  been  effected.  In  the  case  of  the 
few  other  recipes  that  are  intelligible,  the  most  that 
could  be  obtained  by  following  out  their  instructions 
is  a  white  or  yellow  metallic  alloy  superficially 
resembling  silver  or  gold. 

§  24.  The    mystical    as     distinguished    from    the 

pseudo-practical    descriptions   of    the    Stone   and   its 

preparation   are    by    far    the    more    in- 

of  the         teresting  of  the  two.     Paracelsus,  in  his 
Philosopher's    work  on  The  Tincture  of  the  PhilosopherSy 

Stone.         ^^jjg  ^g  ^j^^^  ^Ij  ^^^  jg  necessary  for  us  to 

do  is  to  mix  and  coagulate  the  **  rose-coloured  blood 
from  the  Lion"  and  **the  gluten  from  the  Eagle,"  by 
which  he  probably  meant  that  we  must  combine 
"  philosophical  sulphur  "  with  **  philosophical  mercury.'* 


§  25]  PHYSICAL  ALCHEMY  31 

This  opinion,  that  the  Philosopher's  Stone  consists  of 
**  philosophical  sulphur  and  mercury  "  combined  so  as 
to  constitute  a  perfect  unity,  was  commonly  held  by 
the  alchemists,  and  they  frequently  likened  this  union 
to  the  conjunction  of  the  sexes  in  marriage.  '*  Eirenseus 
Philalethes"  tells  us  that  for  the  preparation  of  the 
Stone  it  is  necessary  to  extract  the  seed  of  gold, 
though  this  cannot  be  accomplished  by  subjecting 
gold  to  corrosive  liquids,  but  only  by  a  homogeneous 
water  (or  liquid) — the  Mercury  of  the  Sages.  In  the 
Book  of  the  Revelation  of  Hermes^  interpreted  by 
Theophrastus  Paracelsus,  concerning  the  Supreme 
Secret  of  the  World,  the  Medicine,  which  is  here,  as 
not  infrequently,  identified  with  the  alchemistic 
essence  of  all  things  or  Soul  of  the  World,  is  described 
in  the  following  suggestive  language  :  "  This  is  the 
Spirit  of  Truth,  which  the  world  cannot  comprehend 
without  the  interposition  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  or 
without  the  instruction  of  those  who  know  it.  The 
same  is  of  a  mysterious  nature,  wondrous  strength, 
boundless  power.  ...  By  Avicenna  this  Spirit  is 
named  the  Soul  of  the  World.  For,  as  the  Soul 
moves  all  the  limbs  of  the  Body,  so  also  does  this 
Spirit  move  all  bodies.  And  as  the  Soul  is  in  all  the 
limbs  of  the  Body,  so  also  is  this  Spirit  in  all 
elementary  created  things.  It  is  sought  by  many  and 
found  by  few.  It  is  beheld  from  afar  and  found 
near ;  for  it  exists  in  every  thing,  in  every  place, 
and  at  all  times.  It  has  the  powers  of  all  creatures ; 
its  action  is  found  in  all  elements,  and  the  qualities 
of  all  things  are  therein,  even  in  the  highest  per- 
fection ...  it  heals  all  dead  and  living  bodies 
without    other    medicine,  .  .  .  converts   all    metallic 


32  ALCHEMY  [§25 

bodies  into  gold,   and  there  is  nothing  like  unto  it 
under  Heaven."  '^ 

§  25.  From    the    ascetic    standpoint    (and   unfor- 
tunately, most  mystics  have  been  somewhat  overfond 
of    ascetic    ideas),   the    development    of 
^]^®  ^^®°^    the  soul  is  only  fully  possible  with  the 

of  Develop-  -r  -  r      i  i        i  1        11 

ment.  mortihcation  of  the  body  ;  and  all   true 

Mysticism  teaches  that  if  we  would  reach 
the  highest  goal  possible  for  man — union  with  the 
Divine — there  must  be  a  giving  up  of  our  own  in- 
dividual wills,  an  abasement  of  the  soul  before  the 
Spirit.  And  so  the  alchemists  taught  that  for  the 
achievement  of  the  magnum  opus  on  the  physical 
plane,  we  must  strip  the  metals  of  their  outward  pro- 
perties in  order  to  develop  the  essence  within.  As  says 
Helvetius  :  "  .  .  the  essences  of  metals  are  hidden  in 
their  outward  bodies,  as  the  kernel  is  hidden  in  the 
nut.  Every  earthly  body,  whether  animal,  vegetable, 
or  mineral,  is  the  habitation  and  terrestrial  abode  of 
that  celestial  spirit,  or  influence,  which  is  its  principle 
of  life  or  growth.  The  secret  of  Alchemy  is  the 
destruction  of  the  body,  which  enables  the  Artist 
to  get  at,  and  utilise  for  his  own  purposes,  the 
living  soul."  ^7  This  killing  of  the  outward  nature 
of  material  things  was  to  be  brought  about  by  the 
processes  of  putrefaction  and  decay  ;  hence  the  reason 
why  such  processes  figure  so  largely  in  alchemistic 
recipes  for  the  preparation  of  the  **  Divine  Magistery." 

'^  See  Benedictus  Figulus  :  A  Golden  and  Blessed  Casket  of 
Nature^ s  Marvels  (translated  by  A.  E.  Waite,  1893,  pp.  36,  37, 
and  41). 

^^  J.  F.  Helvetius  :  The  Golden  Calf^  ch.  iv.  (see  The  Hermetic 
Museum,  vol.  ii.  p.  298). 


PLATE   4- 


SYMBOLICAL   ILLUSTRATION 

Representing  the 
Coction  of  Gold  Amalgam  in  a  Closed  Vessel. 


SYMBOLICAL   ILLUSTRATION 

Representing  the 
Transmutation  of  the  Metals. 


[To  face  page 


§25]  PHYSICAL  ALCHEMY  33 

It  must  be  borne  in  mind,  however,  that  the  alchemists 
used  the   terms  "  putrefaction  "  and  **  decay  "  rather 
indiscriminately,  applying  them  to  chemical  processes 
which   are   no   longer   regarded   as   such.       Pictorial 
symbols  of  death  and  decay  representative  of  such  pro- 
cesses are  to  be  found  in  several  alchemistic  books. 
There   is   a   curious   series   of  pictures  in  A   Form 
and   Method  of  Perfecting  Base   Metals,  by  Janus 
Lacinus,    the    Calabrian   (a   short    tract   prefixed    to 
The   New  Pearl  of  Great  Price  by  Peter  Bonus- 
see   §  39),    of  which    we    show   three    examples   in 
plates    3   and   4.     In   the   first   picture  of  the  series 
(not  shown   here)  we  enter  the  palace  of  the   king 
(gold)   and   observe   him    sitting   crowned    upon   his 
throne,   surrounded    by   his   son   (mercury)  and   five 
servants     (silver,    copper,    tin,    iron    and    lead).       In 
the  next  picture  (plate  3,  fig.  B),  the  son,  incited  by 
the   servants,    kills  his    father  ;  and,  in  the  third,  he 
catches  the  blood  of  his  murdered  parent  in  his  robes  ;       v* 
whereby  we  understand  that  an  amalgam  of  gold  and     {  ^ 
mercury    is    to    be   prepared,    the   gold    apparently       ^ 
disappearing  or  dying,  whilst  the  mercury  is  coloured      <4 
thereby.     The  next  picture  shows  us  a  grave  being       ^ 
dug,  i.e.,  a  furnace  is  to  be  made  ready.     In  the  fifth 
picture  in  the  series,  the  son  "thought  to  throw  his 
father    into    the    grave,    and    to    leave   him    there  ;    ^^^ 
but  .  .  .  both    fell    in   together "  ;  and   in   the   sixth    Ni 
picture  (plate  4,  fig.  A),  we  see  the  son   being  pre-    V 
vented  from  escaping,  both  son  and  father  being  left   "*< 
in  the  grave  to  decay.     Here  we  have  instructions  in      '^ 
symbolical   form    to   place  the   amalgam  in  a  sealed     ^ 
vessel  in  the  furnace  and  to  allow  it  to  remain  there 
until   some   change   is   observed.      So    the   allegory 

4 


34  ALCHEMY  [§  26 

proceeds.  Ultimately  the  father  is  restored  to  life, 
the  symbol  of  resurrection  being  (as  might  be  ex- 
pected) of  frequent  occurrence  in  alchemistic  literature. 
By  this  resurrection  we  understand  that  the  gold  will 
finally  be  obtained  in  a  pure  form.  Indeed,  it  is  now 
the  ''great  medicine"  and,  in  the  last  picture  of 
the  series  (plate  4,  fig.  B),  the  king's  son  and  his 
five  servants  are  all  made  kings  in  virtue  of  its 
powers. 

§  26.  The  alchemists  believed  that  a  most  minute 
proportion  of  the  Stone  projected  upon  considerable 

The  Powers     ^^^.ntities    of    heated     mercury,    molten 
of  the        lead,     or    other     ''  base "     metal,    would 

Philosopher's  transmute  practically  the  whole  into 
silver  or  gold.  This  claim  of  the 
alchemists,  that  a  most  minute  quantity  of  the  Stone 
was  sufficient  to  transmute  considerable  quantities  of 
''base"  metal,  has  been  the  object  of  much  ridicule. 
Certainly,  some  of  the  claims  of  the  alchemists  (under- 
stood literally)  are  out  of  all  reason  ;  but  on  the 
other  hand,  the  disproportion  between  the  quantities 
of  Stone  and  transmuted  metal  cannot  be  advanced 
as  an  d  priori  objection  to  the  alchemists'  claims, 
inasmuch  that  a  class  of  chemical  reactions  (called 
"  catalytic ")  is  known,  in  which  the  presence  of  a 
small  quantity  of  some  appropriate  form  of  matter — 
the  catalyst — brings  about  a  chemical  change  in  an 
indefinite  quantity  of  some  other  form  or  forms  ;  thus, 
for  example,  cane-sugar  in  aqueous  solution  is  con- 
verted into  two  other  sugars  by  the  action  of  small 
quantities  of  acid  ;  and  sulphur-dioxide  and  oxygen, 
which  will  not  combine  under  ordinary  conditions, 
do  so  readily    in  the   presence  of  a   small   quantity 


§  27]  PHYSICAL  ALCHEMY  35 

of  platinized  asbestos,  which  is  obtained  unaltered 
after  the  reaction  is  completed  and  may  be  used  over 
and  over  again  (this  process  is  actually  employed  in 
the  manufacture  of  sulphuric  acid  or  oil  of  vitriol). 
However,  whether  any  such  catalytic  transmutation 
of  the  chemical  "  elements "  is  possible  is  merely 
conjecture. 

§  27.  The  Elixir  of  Life,  which  was  generally 
described   as    a    solution    of  the    Stone  in  spirits  of 

wine,  or  identified  with  the  Stone  itself, 
of  Life         could     be   applied,    so   it   was    thought, 

under  certain  conditions  to  the 
alchemist  himself,  with  an  entirely  analogous  result, 
i,e.y  it  would  restore  him  to  the  flower  of  youth.  The 
idea,  not  infrequently  attributed  to  the  alchemists,  that 
the  Elixir  would  endow  one  with  a  life  of  endless 
duration  on  the  material  plane  is  not  in  strict  accord 
with  alchemistic  analogy.  From  this  point  of  view, 
the  effect  of  the  Elixir  is  physiological  perfection, 
which,  although  ensuring  long  life,  is  not  equivalent 
to  endless  life  on  the  material  plane.  **  The  Philo- 
sophers' Stone,"  says  Paracelsus,  "purges  the  whole 
body  of  man,  and  cleanses  it  from  all  impurities  by 
the  introduction  of  new  and  more  youthful  forces 
wh  ch  it  joins  to  the  nature  of  man."  ^^  And  in 
an  )ther  work  expressive  of  the  opinions  of  the 
sarrie  alchemist,  we  read  :**...  there  is  nothing 
which  might  deliver  the  mortal  body  from  death  ; 
but  there  is  One  Thing  which  may  postpone 
decay,     renew    youth,     and    prolong    short    human 

^^  Theophrastus  Paracelsus  :  The  Fifth  Book  of  the  Archi- 
doxies  (see  The  Hermetic  and  Alchemical  Writings  of  Paracelsus^ 
translated  by  A.  E.  Waite,  1894,  vol.  ii.  p.  39). 


36  ALCHEMY  [§  28 

life  .  .  .  "  ^9     In  the   theory   that   a  solution  of  the 

Philosopher's  Stone  (which,  it  must  be  remembered, 

was  thought  to  be  of  a  species  with  gold)  constituted 

the  Elixir  VitcB,  can  be  traced,  perhaps,  the  idea  that 

gold  in  a  potable  form  was  a  veritable  cure-all  :  in 

the  latter  days  of  Alchemy  any  yellow-coloured  liquid 

was  foisted  upon  a  credulous  public  as  a  medicinal 

preparation  of  gold. 

§  28.  We    will   conclude    this    chapter   with   some 

few    remarks    regarding    the    practical    methods    of 

The  Practical    ^^   alchemists.      In    their    experiments, 

Methods  of     the    alchemists  worked  with   very  large 

*^®  quantities  of  material  compared  with  what 

Alchemists.      .  i         i  •       i        •     i  i  i 

IS  employed  m  chemical  researches  at  the 

present  day.  They  had  great  belief  in  the  efficacy 
of  time  to  effect  a  desired  change  in  their  substances, 
and  they  were  wont  to  repeat  the  same  operation 
(such  as  distillation,  for  example)  on  the  same  mate- 
rial over  and  over  again  ;  which  demonstrated  their 
unwearied  patience,  even  if  it  effected  little  towards 
the  attainment  of  their  end.  They  paid  much  atten- 
tion to  any  changes  of  colour  they  observed  in  their 
experiments,  and  many  descriptions  of  supposed 
methods  to  achieve  the  magnum  opus  contain  :ie- 
tailed  directions  as  to  the  various  changes  of  co^)ur 
which  must  be  obtained  in  the  material  operated  u -^on 
if  a   successful  issue  to  the  experiment  is  desirea.^o 

^9  The  Book  of  the  Revelation  of  Hermes,  interpreted  by  Theo- 
phrastus  Paracelsus,  concerning  the  Supreme  Secret  of  the  World. 
(See  Benedictus  Figulus  :  A  Golden  Casket  of  Nature's  Marvels, 
translated  by  A.  E.  Waite,  1893,  pp.  33  and  34.) 

2°  As  writes  Espagnet  in  his  Hermetic  Arcanum,  canons  64  and  65  : 
"  The  Means  or  demonstrative  signs  are  Colours,  successively  and 
orderly  aifecting  the  matter  and  its  affections  and  demonstrative 


ITo  face  pafie  37 


§  28]  PHYSICAL   ALCHEMY  37 

In  plates  5  and  6  we  give  illustrations  of  some 
characteristic  pieces  of  apparatus  employed  by  the 
alchemists.  Plate  5,  fig.  A,  and  plate  6,  fig.  A,  are 
from  a  work  known  as  Alchemiae  Gebri  (1545)  ; 
plate  5,  fig.  B,  is  from  Glauber's  work  on  Furnaces 
(1651) ;  and  plate  6,  fig.  B,  is  from  a  work  by  Dr.  John 
French    entitled    The    Art    of   Distillation    (1651). 

passions,  whereof  there  are  also  three  special  ones  (as  critical)  to 
be  noted  ;  to  these  some  add  a  Fourth.  The  first  is  black,  which  is 
ealled  the  Crow's  head,  because  of  its  extreme  blackness,  whose 
crepusculum  sheweth  the  beginning  of  the  action  of  the  fire  of 
nature  and  solution,  and  the  blackest  midnight  sheweth  the  perfec- 
tion of  liquefaction,  and  confusion  of  the  elements.  Then  the  grain 
putrefies  and  is  corrupted,  that  it  may  be  the  more  apt  for  genera- 
tion .  The  white  colour  succeedeth  the  black,  wherein  is  given  the 
perfection  of  the  first  degree,  and  of  the  White  Sulphur.  This  is 
called  the  blessed  stone ;  this  Earth  is  white  and  foliated,  wherein 
Philosophers  do  sow  their  gold.  The  third  is  Orange  colour, 
which  is  produced  in  the  passage  of  the  white  to  the  red,  as  the 
middle,  and  being  mixed  of  both  is  as  the  dawn  with  his  saffron 
kair,  a  forerunner  of  the  Sun.  The  fourth  colour  is  Ruddy  and 
Sanguine,  which  is  extracted  from  the  white  fire  only.  Now  because 
whiteness  is  easily  altered  by  any  other  colour  before  day  it  quickly 
laileth  of  its  candour.  But  the  deep  redness  of  the  Sun  perfecteth 
the  work  of  Sulphur,  which  is  called  the  Sperm  of  the  male,  the  fire 
of  the  Stone,  the  King's  Crown,  and  the  Son  of  Sol,  wherein  the 
first  labour  of  the  workman  resteth. 

"  Besides  these  decretory  signs  which  firmly  inhere  in  the  matter, 
and  shew  its  essential  mutations,  almost  infinite  colours  appear, 
and  shew  themselves  in  vapours,  as  the  Rainbow  in  the  clouds, 
which  quickly  pass  away  and  are  expelled  by  those  that  succeed, 
more  affecting  the  air  than  the  earth  :  the  operator  must  have  a 
gentle  care  of  them,  because  they  are  not  permanent,  and  proceed 
not  from  the  intrinsic  disposition  of  the  matter,  but  from  the  fire 
painting  and  fashioning  everything  after  its  pleasure,  or  casually 
by  heat  in  slight  moisture "  (see  Collectanea  Hermetica^  edited  by 
W.  Wynn  Westcott,  vol.  i.,  1893,  pp.  28  and  29).  Very  probably 
this  is  not  without  a  mystical  meaning  as  well  as  a  supposed 
application  in  the  preparation  of  the  physical  Stone. 


38  ALCHEMY  [§  28 

The  first  figure  shows  us  a  furnace  and  alembics. 
The  alembic  proper  is  a  sort  of  still- head  which  can 
be  luted  on  to  a  flask  or  other  vessel,  and  was  much 
used  for  distillations.  In  the  present  case,  however, 
the  alembics  are  employed  in  conjunction  with  appa- 
ratus for  subliming  difficultly  volatile  substances. 
Plate  5,  fig.  B,  shows  another  apparatus  for  sublima- 
tion, consisting  of  a  sort  of  oven,  and  four  detachable 
upper  -chambers,  generally  called  aludels.  In  both 
forms  of  apparatus  the  vapours  are  cooled  in  the 
upper  part  of  the  vessel,  and  the  substance  is 
deposited  in  the  solid  form,  being  thereby  purified 
from  less  volatile  impurities.  Plate  6,  fig.  A,  shows 
an  athanor  (or  digesting  furnace)  and  a  couple  of 
digesting  vessels.  A  vessel  of  this  sort  was  em- 
ployed for  heating  bodies  in  a  closed  space,  the  top 
being  sealed  up  when  the  substances  to  be  operated 
upon  had  been  put  inside,  and  the  vessel  heated  in 
an  athanor  in  ashes,  a  uniform  temperature  being 
maintained.  The  pelican,  illustrated  in  plate  6,  fig. 
B,  was  used  for  a  similar  purpose,  the  two  arms 
being  added  in  the  idea  that  the  vapours  would  be 
circulated  thereby. 


IT. 


u 


T.i     fr,r,>    h,l((/>    iXl 


CHAPTER   III 

THE    ALCHEMISTS^ 
(a.   before   Paracelsus) 

§  29.  Having  now  considered  the  chief  points  in 

the  theory  of  Physical  Alchemy,  we  must  turn  our 

attention    to   the    lives    and    individual 

ermes       teaching's  of  the  alchemists  themselves. 
Tnsmegistos.  ^  ,  .  i     .      r        i    •       i 

The   first  name  which  is  found   m  the 

history  of  Alchemy  is  that  of  Hermes  Trismegistos. 

We    have    already     mentioned     the     high     esteem 

in    which    the    works    ascribed    to    this    personage 

'  It  is  perhaps  advisable  to  mention  here  that  the  lives  of  the 
alchemists,  for  the  most  part,  are  enveloped  in  considerable 
obscurity,  and  many  points  in  connection  therewith  are  in  dispute. 
The  authorities  we  have  followed  will  be  found,  as  a  rule,  specific- 
ally mentioned  in  what  follows  ;  but  we  may  here  acknowledge  our 
general  indebtedness  to  the  following  works,  though,  as  the  reader 
will  observe,  many  others  have  been  consulted  as  well :  Thomas 
Thomson's  The  History  of  Chemistry,  Meyer's  A  History  of 
Chemistry,  the  anonymous  Lives  of  Alchemy stical  Philosophers  (1815), 
the  works  of  Mr.  A.  E.  Waite,  the  Dictionary  of  National  Biography, 
and  certain  articles  in  the  Encyclopdceia  Britannica.  This  must  not 
be  taken  to  mean,  however,  that  we  have  always  followed  the  con- 
clusions reached  in  these  works,  for  so  far  as  the  older  of  them  are 
concerned,  recent  researches  by  various  authorities — to  whom  refer- 
ence will  be  found  in  the  following  pages,  and  to  whom,  also,  we  are 
indebted — have  shown,  in  certain  cases,  that  such  are  not  tenable. 


40  ALCHEMY  [§  30 

I  were  held  by  the  alchemists  (§  6).  He  has  been 
I  regarded  as  the  father  of  Alchemy ;  his  name  has 
I  supplied  a  synonym  for  the  Art — the  Hermetic  Art 
j  — and  even  to-day  we  speak  of  hermetically  sealing 
flasks  and  the  like.  But  who  Hermes  actually  was, 
or  even  if  there  were  such  a  personage,  is  a  matter 
of  conjecture.  The  alchemists  themselves  supposed 
him  to  have  been  an  Egyptian  living  about  the  time 
of  Moses.  He  is  now  generally  regarded  as  purely 
mythical — a  personification  of  Thoth,  the  Egyptian 
God  of  learning ;  but,  of  course,  some  person  or 
persons  must  have  written  the  works  attributed  to 
him,  and  the  first  of  such  writers  (if,  as  seems  not 
unlikely,  there  were  more  than  one)  may  be  considered 
to  have  a  right  to  the  name.  Of  these  works,  the 
Divine  Pymander,'^  a  mystical-religious  treatise,  is 
the  most  important.  The  Golden  Tractate,  also  attri- 
buted to  Hermes,  which  is  an  exceedingly  obscure 
alchemistic  work,  is  now  regarded  as  having  been 
written  at  a  comparatively  late  date. 

§  30.  In  a  work   attributed   to  Albertus   Magnus, 

but   which   is   probably   spurious,    we   are   told   that 

Alexander  the  Great  found  the  tomb  of 

^^®  Hermes  in  a  cave  near  Hebron.     This 

Smaragdine  ,  .       ,  i  i         i  i 

Table  tomb    contamed     an    emerald    table  — 

"  The    Smaragdine    Table  " — on    which 

were   inscribed   the   following   thirteen   sentences   in 

Phoenician  characters  : — 

I.   I  speak  not  fictitious  things,  but  what  is  true 

and  most  certain. 

2  Dr.  Everard's  translation  of  this  work  forms  vol.  ii.  of  the 
Collectanea  Hermetica,  edited  by  W.  Wynn  Westcott,  M.B.,  D.P.H. 
It  is  now,  however,  out  of  print. 


§30]  THE  ALCHEMISTS  41 

2.  What  is  below  is  like  that  which  is  above, 
and  what  is  above  is  like  that  which  is  below,  to 
accomplish  the  miracles  of  one  thing. 

3.  And  as  all  things  were  produced  by  the  medi- 
ation of  one  Being,  so  all  things  were  produced 
from  this  one  thing  by  adaptation. 

4.  Its  father  is  the  Sun,  its  mother  the  Moon ;  the 
wind  carries  it  in  its  belly,  its  nurse  is  the  earth. 

5.  It  is  the  cause  of  all  perfection  throughout  the 
whole  world. 

6.  Its  power  is  perfect  if  it  be  changed  into  earth. 

7.  Separate  the  earth  from  the  fire,  the  subtle  from 
the  gross,  acting  prudently  and  with  judgment. 

8.  Ascend  with  the  greatest  sagacity  from  the  earth 
to  heaven,  and  then  again  descend  to  the  earth,  and 
unite  together  the  powers  of  things  superior  and 
things  inferior.  Thus  you  will  obtain  the  glory  of  the 
whole  world,  and  all  obscurity  will  fly  far  away 
from  you. 

9.  This  thing  is  the  fortitude  of  all  fortitude, 
because  it  overcomes  all  subtle  things,  and  penetrates 
every  solid  thing. 

10.  Thus  were  all  things  created. 

1 1 .  Thence  proceed  wonderful  adaptations  which 
are  produced  in  this  way. 

12.  Therefore  am  I  called  Hermes  Trismegistus, 
possessing  the  three  parts  of  the  philosophy  of  the 
whole  world. 

13.  That  which  I  had  to  say  concerning  the 
operation  of  the  Sun  is  completed. 

These  sentences  clearly  teach  the  doctrine  of  the 
alchemistic  essence  or  ''One  Thing,"  which  is  every- 
where present,  penetrating  even  solids  (this  we  should 


42  ALCHEMY  [§  31 

note  is  true  of  the  ether  of  space),  and  out  of  which 
all  things  of  the  physical  world  are  made  by  adapta- 
tion or  modification.  The  terms  Sun  and  Moon  in 
the  above  passage  probably  stand  for  Spirit  and 
Matter  respectively,  not  gold  and  silver. 

§  31.  One  of  the  earliest  of  the  alchemists  of  whom 

record    remains    was    Zosimus    of    Panopolis,    who 

flourished  in  the  fifth  century,   and  was 

PanoDolis  regarded  by  the  later  alchemists  as  a 
master  of  the  Art.  He  is  said  to  have 
written  many  treatises  dealing  with  Alchemy,  but  only 
fragments  remain.  Of  these  fragments.  Professor 
Venable  says  :  "  ...  they  give  us  a  good  idea  of 
the  learning  of  the  man  and  of  his  times.  They 
contain  descriptions  of  apparatus,  of  furnaces,  studies 
of  minerals,  of  alloys,  of  glass  making,  of  mineral 
waters,  and  much  that  is  mystical,  besides  a  good  deal 
referring  to  the  transmutation  of  metals."  3  Zosimus 
is  said  to  have  been  the  author  of  the  saying,  ''  like 
begets  like,"  but  whether  all  the  fragments  ascribed  to 
him  were  really  his  work  is  doubtful. 

Among  other  early  alchemists  we  may  mention  also 
Africanus,  the  Syrian;  Synesius,  Bishop  of  Ptolemais, 
and  the  historian,  Olympiodorus  of  Thebes. 

§  32.  In  the  seventh  century  the  Arabians  conquered 
Egypt  ;  and  strangely  enough,  Alchemy  flourished 
under  them  to  a  remarkable  deg^ree.  Of 
all  the  Arabian  alchemists,  Geber  has 
been  regarded  as  the  greatest;  as  Professor  Meyer 
says  :  '*  There  can  be  no  dispute  that  with  the  name 
Geber  was  propagated  the  memory  of  a  personality 

3  F.  P.  Venable,  Ph.D. :  A  Short  History  of  Chemistry  (1896), 
P-  13- 


§32]  THE   ALCHEMISTS  43 

with  which  the  chemical  knowledge  of  the  time  was 
bound  up."  4  Geber  is  supposed  to  have  lived  about 
the  ninth  century,  but  of  his  life  nothing  definite  is 
known.  A  large  number  of  works  have  been  ascribed 
to  him,  of  which  the  majority  are  unknown,  but  the 
four  Latin  MSS.  which  have  been  printed  under 
the  titles  Summa  Perfectionis  Mettalorum,  De  In- 
vestigatione  Perfectionis  Metallorum,  De  Inventione 
Veritatis  and  De  Fornacibus  Construendisy  were, 
until  a  few  years  ago,  regarded  as  genuine.  On  the 
strength  of  these  works,  Geber  has  ranked  high  as  a 
chemist.  In  them  are  described  the  preparation  of 
many  important  chemical  compounds ;  the  most 
essential  chemical  operations,  such  as  sublimation, 
distillation,  filtration,  crystallisation  (or  coagulation,  as 
the  alchemists  called  it),  &c.  ;  and  also  important 
chemical  apparatus,  for  example,  the  water-bath, 
improved  furnaces,  &c.  However,  it  was  shown  by 
the  late  Professor  Berthelot  that  Summa  Perfectionis 
Mettalorum  is  a  forgery  of  the  fourteenth  century,  and 
the  other  works  forgeries  of  an  even  later  date. 
Moreover,  the  original  Arabic  MSS.  of  Geber  have 
been  brought  to  light.  These  true  writings  of  Geber 
are  very  obscure  ;  they  give  no  warrant  for  believing 
that  the  famous  sulphur-mercury  theory  was  due  to 
this  alchemist,  and  they  prove  him  not  to  be  the 
expert  chemist  that  he  was  supposed  to  have  been. 
The  spurious  writings  mentioned  above  show  that  the 
pseudo-Geber  was  a  man  of  wide  chemical  knowledge 
and  experience,  and  play  a  not  inconsiderable  part  in 
the  history  of  Alchemy. 

♦  Ernst  von  Meyer:  A  History  of  Chemistry  (translated  by 
Dr.  McGowan,  1906),  p.  31. 


44  ALCHEMY  [§  33 

§  33.  Among   other  Arabian  alchemists   the  most 
celebrated  were  Avicenna  and  Rhasis,  who  are  sup- 
posed   to   have   lived   some   time    after 
^Akh^te*"  Geber;     and    to    whom,     perhaps,     the 
sulphur-mercury  theory  may  have  been 
to  some  extent  due. 

The  teachings  of  the  Arabian  alchemists  gradually 
penetrated  into  the  Western  world,  in  which,  during 
the  thirteenth  century,  flourished  some  of  the  most 
eminent  of  the  alchemists,  whose  lives  and  teachings 
we  must  now  briefly  consider. 

§  34.  Albertus  Magnus,  Albert   Groot   or  Albert 
von   Bollstadt  (see  plate   7),   was  born  at  Lauingen, 
probably  in   1193.     ^^  ^^^  educated  at 
(iiQoicJ^\    Padua,  and  in  his  later  years  he  showed 
himself  apt  at  acquiring  the  knowledge 
of  his  time.     He  studied   theology,    philosophy   and 
natural    science,    and    is    chiefly    celebrated    as    an 
Aristotelean  philosopher.     He  entered  the  Dominican 
order,  taught  publicly  at  Cologne,  Paris  and  elsewhere, 
and  was  made  provincial  of  this  order.     Later  he  had 
the  bishopric  of  Regensburg  conferred  on  him,  but  he 
retired  after  a  few  years  to  a  Dominican  cloister,  where 
he  devoted  himself  to  philosophy  and  science.     He 
was  one  of  the  most  learned  men  of  his  time  and,  more- 
over, a  man  of  noble  character.    The  authenticity  of  the 
alchemistic  works  attributed  to  him  has  been  questioned. 
§  35.  The  celebrated  Dominican,  Thomas  Aquinas 
(see   plate   8),   was  probably  a  pupil  of 
Thomas        Albertus  Magnus,  from  whom  it  is  thought 
(122&-1274).     ^^   imbibed   alchemistic  learning.     It  is 
very  probable,  however,  that  the  alchem- 
istic   works   attributed    to   him   are   spurious.      The 


PLATE   7. 


[by  de  Bry] 


PORTRAIT   OF 
ALBERTUS   MAGNUS. 


face  -taHe  44] 


§  36]  THE  ALCHEMISTS  45 

author   of  these   works  manifests  a  deeply  religious 
tone,     and,     according     to    Thomson's    History    of 
Chemistry,    he   was    the   first    to    employ   the    term 
** amalgam"  to  designate  an   alloy  of  mercury  with 
some  other  metal.  5 

§  36.  Roger  Bacon,  the  most  illustrious  of  the  medi- 
aeval alchemists,  was  born  near  Ilchester  in  Somer- 
set, probably  in  12 14.  His  erudition, 
^1214-12941^^  considering  the  general  state  of  ignorance 
prevailing  at  this  time,  was  most  remark- 
able. Professor  Meyer  says  :  "  He  is  to  be  regarded 
as  the  intellectual  originator  of  experimental  research, 
if  the  departure  in  this  direction  is  to  be  coupled  with 
any  one  name — a  direction  which,  followed  more  and 
more  as  time  went  on,  gave  to  the  science  [of 
Chemistry]  its  own  peculiar  stamp,  and  ensured  its 
steady  development."^  Roger  Bacon  studied  theology 
and  science  at  Oxford  and  at  Paris ;  and  he  joined  the 
Franciscan  order,  at  what  date,  however,  is  uncertain. 
He  was  particularly  interested  in  optics,  and  certain 
discoveries  in  this  branch  of  physics  have  been 
attributed  to  him,  though  probably  erroneously.  It 
appears,  also,  that  he  was  acquainted  with  gunpowder, 
which  was,  however,  not  employed  in  Europe  until 
many  years  later. 7  Unfortunately,  he  earned  the 
undesirable  reputation  of  being  in  communication  with 
the  powers  of  darkness,  and  as  he  did  not  hesitate  to 
oppose  many  of  the  opinions  current  at  the  time,  he 

5  Thomas  Thomson  :  The  History  of  Chemistry,  vol.  i.  (1830), 

P-  33. 

^  Ernst  von   Meyer  :  A   History  of  Chemistry   (translated  by 
Dr.  McGowan,  1906),  p.  35. 

7  See  Roger  Bacon's  Discovery  of  Miracles,  chaps,  vi.  and  xi. 


46  ALCHEMY  [§  36 

suffered  much  persecution.  He  was  a  firm  believer  in 
the  powers  of  the  Philosopher's  Stone  to  transmute 
large  quantities  of  ''  base  "  metal  into  gold,  and  also  to 
extend  the  life  of  the  individual.  ''  Alchimyy'  he  says, 
"  is  a  Science,  teaching  how  to  transforme  any  kind  of 
mettall  into  another  :  and  that  by  a  proper  medicine,  as 
it  appeareth  by  many  Philosophers  Bookes.  Alchimy 
therefore  is  a  science  teaching  how  to  make  and  com- 
pound a  certaine  medicine,  which  is  called  Elixir,  the 
which  when  it  is  cast  upon  mettals  or  imperfect  bodies, 
doth  fully  perfect  them  in  the  verie  projection."  ^  He 
also  believed  in  Astrology ;  but,  nevertheless,  he  was 
entirely  opposed  to  many  of  the  magical  and  super- 
stitious notions  held  at  the  time,  and  his  tract,  De 
Secretis  Operibus  Artis  et  NaturcE,  et  de  Nullitate 
MagicB,  was  an  endeavour  to  prove  that  many  so-called 
**  miracles  "  could  be  brought  about  simply  by  the  aid 
of  natural  science.  Roger  Bacon  was  a  firm  supporter 
of  the  Sulphur- Mercury  theory:  he  says  :**...  the 
natural  principles  in  the  mynes,  are  Argent-Vive^  and 
Sulphur,  All  mettals  and  minerals,  whereof  there  be 
sundrie  and  divers  kinds,  are  begotten  of  these  two : 
but  I  must  tel  you,  that  nature  alwaies  intendeth  and 
striveth  to  the  perfection  of  Gold  :  but  many  accidents 
coming  between,  change  the  metalls.  .  .  .  For  accord- 
ing to  the  puritie  and  impuritie  of  the  two  aforesaide 
principles,  Argent-vive  and  Sulphur,  pure,  and  impure 
mettals  are  ingendred."  9  He  expresses  surprise  that 
any  should  employ  animal  and  vegetable  substances 
in  their  attempts  to  prepare  the  Stone,  a  practice 
common  to  some  alchemists  but  warmly  criticised  by 

^  Roger  Bacon  :  The  Mirror  of  Alchimy  (1597),  p.  i- 
9  Ibid.  p.  2. 


§  38]  THE   ALCHEMISTS  47 

others.  He  says :  '*  Nothing  may  be  mingled  with 
mettalls  which  hath  not  beene  made  or  sprung  from 
them,  it  remaineth  cleane  inough,  that  no  strange 
thing  which  hath  not  his  originall  from  these  two  [viz., 
sulphur  and  mercury],  is  able  to  perfect  them,  or  to 
make  a  chaunge  and  new  transmutation  of  them  :  so 
that  it  is  to  be  wondered  at,  that  any  wise  man  should 
set  his  mind  upon  living  creatures,  or  vegetables  which 
are  far  off,  when  there  be  minerals  to  bee  found  nigh 
enough  :  neither  may  we  in  any  wise  thinke,  that  any 
of  the  Philosophers  placed  the  Art  in  the  said  remote 
things,  except  it  were  by  way  of  comparison."  i°  The 
one  process  necessary  for  the  preparation  of  the 
Stone,  he  tells  us,  is  "continuall  concoction"  in  the 
fire,  which  is  the  method  that  "God  hath  given  to 
nature."  ^^     He  died  about  1294. 

§  37.  The    date    and    birthplace    of    Arnold    de 

Villanova,   or   Villeneuve,  are   both   uncertain.     He 

studied  medicine  at  Paris,  and  in  the  latter 

V*ll  P^^^   ^^  ^^^  thirteenth  century  practised 

(12 — ?-i3io?).  pi'ofessionally  in  Barcelona.  To  avoid 
persecution  at  the  hands  of  the  Inquisi- 
tion, he  was  obliged  to  leave  Spain,  and  ultimately 
found  safety  with  Frederick  H.  in  Sicily.  He  was 
famous  not  only  as  an  alchemist,  but  also  as  a  skilful 
physician.  He  died  (it  is  thought  in  a  shipwreck) 
about  1 3 10-13 1 3. 

§  38.  Raymond  LuUy,  the  son  of  a  noble  Spanish 
family,  was  born  at  Palma  (in  Majorca)  about  1235. 
He  was  a  man  of  somewhat  eccentric  character — 
in    his  youth    a    ma  n  of  pleasure ;    in   his  maturity, 

^°  Roger  Bacon  :  T^e  Mirror  of  Alchimy  (1597),  p.  4. 
"  Ibid.  p.  9. 


48  ALCHEMY  [§  38 

a  mystic  and  ascetic.     His    career   was   of  a  roving 

and  adventurous  character.     We  are  told  that,  in  his 

younger  days,  although  married,  he  be- 

^ifT^^  came  violently  infatuated  with  a  lady  of 
(1235  7-1315).  the  name  of  Ambrosia  de  Castello,  who 
vainly  tried  to  dissuade  him  from  his 
profane  passion.  Her  efforts  proving  futile,  she  re- 
quested Lully  to  call  upon  her,  and  in  the  presence  of 
her  husband,  bared  to  his  sight  her  breast,  which  was 
almost  eaten  away  by  a  cancer.  This  sight — so  the 
story  goes — brought  about  Lully 's  conversion.  He 
became  actuated  by  the  idea  of  converting  to 
Christianity  the  heathen  in  Africa,  and  engaged  the 
services  of  an  Arabian  whereby  he  might  learn  the 
language.  The  man,  however,  discovering  his 
master's  object,  attempted  to  assassinate  him,  and 
Lully  narrowly  escaped  with  his  life.  But  his 
enthusiasm  for  missionary  work  never  abated — his 
central  idea  was  the  reasonableness  and  demon- 
strability  of  Christian  doctrine  —  and  unhappily  he 
was,  at  last,  stoned  to  death  by  the  inhabitants  of 
Bugiah  (in  Algeria)  in   1315.^2 

A  very  large  number  of  alchemistic,  theological  and 
other  treatises  are  attributed  to  Lully,  many  of  which 
are  undoubtedly  spurious  ;  and  it  is  a  difficult  question 
to  decide  exactly  which  are  genuine.  He  is  supposed 
to  have  derived  a  knowledge  of  Alchemy  from  Roger 
Bacon  and  Arnold  de  Villanova.  It  appears  more 
probable,  however,  either  that  Lully  the  alchemist 
was  a  personage  distinct  from  the  Lully  whose  life  we 
have  sketched  above,  or  that  the  alchemistic  writings 
attributed  to  him  are  forgeries  of  a  similar  nature  to 

"  See  Lives  of  Alchemystical  Philosophers  (1815),  pp.  17  et  seq. 


§39]  THE   ALCHEMISTS  49 

the  works  of  pseudo  -  Geber  (§  32).  Of  these 
alchemical  writings  we  may  here  mention  the  Clavi- 
cula.  This  he  says  is  the  key  to  all  his  other  books 
on  Alchemy,  in  which  books  the  whole  Art  is  fully 
declared,  though  so  obscurely  as  not  to  be  under- 
standable without  its  aid.  In  this  work  an  alleged 
method  for  what  may  be  called  the  multiplication  of  the 
*'  noble  "  metals  rather  than  transmutation  is  described 
in  clear  language ;  but  it  should  be  noticed  that  the 
stone  employed  is  itself  a  compound  either  of  silver  or 
gold.  According  to  Lully,  the  secret  of  the  Philoso- 
pher's Stone  is  the  extraction  of  the  mercury  of  silver 
or  gold.  He  writes :  "  Metals  cannot  be  trans- 
muted. ...  in  the  Minerals,  unless  they  be  reduced 
into  their  first  Matter.  .  .  .  Therefore  I  counsel  you, 
O  my  Friends,  that  you  do  not  work  but  about  Sol  and 
Luna,  reducing  them  into  the  first  Matter,  our 
Sulphur  and  Argent  vive  :  therefore,  Son,  you  are  to 
use  this  venerable  Matter  ;  and  I  swear  unto  you  and 
promise,  that  unless  you  take  the  Argent  vive  of  these 
two,  you  go  to  the  Practick  as  blind  men  without  eyes 
or  sense.  .  .  .  "  ^3 

§  39.  In    1546,    a    work    was    published    entitled 
Magarita  Pretiosa,   which  claimed     to  be   a    '*  faith- 
ful    abridgement,"    by     "Janus     Lacinus 

^?.*fi^^°'''''  Therapus,     the     Calabrian,"    of    a     MS. 
(14th  Cen-  .  /       «  „  •         1         r 

tury).       written    by    Peter    Bonus    m    the    four- 
teenth   century.       An    abridged    English 
translation   of  this   book   by  Mr.   A.   E.  Waite  was 
published   in    1894.      Of  the   life  of   Bonus,  who   is 
said  to  have  been   an   inhabitant  of  Pola,   a  seaport 

^3  Raymond  Lully  :  Clavicula^  or,  A  Little  Key  (see  Aurifontina 
Chymica,  1680,  p.  167). 

6 


50  ALCHEMY  [§  39 

of  I  stria,  nothing  is  known  ;  but  the  Magarita 
Pretiosa  is  an  alchemistic  work  of  considerable 
interest.  The  author  commences,  like  pseudo-Geber 
in  his  Sum  of  Perfection,  by  bringing  forward  a 
number  of  very  ingenious  arguments  against  the 
validity  of  the  Art ;  he  then  proceeds  with  argu- 
ments in  favour  of  Alchemy  and  puts  forward 
answers  in  full  to  the  former  objections  ;  further  diffi- 
culties, &c.,  are  then  dealt  with.  In  all  this,  compared 
with  many  other  alchemists.  Bonus,  though  somewhat 
prolix,  is  remarkably  lucid.  All  metals,  he  argues,  fol- 
lowing the  views  of  pseudo-Geber,  consist  of  mercury 
and  sulphur ;  but  whilst  the  mercury  is  always  one 
and  the  same,  different  metals  contain  different 
sulphurs.  There  are  also  two  different  kinds  of 
sulphurs — inward  and  outward.  Sulphur  is  necessary 
for  the  development  of  the  mercury,  but  for  the  final 
product,  gold,  to  come  forth,  it  is  necessary  that  the 
outward  and  impure  sulphur  be  purged  off.  "  Each 
metal,"  says  Bonus,  ''differs  from  all  the  rest,  and  has 
a  certain  perfection  and  completeness  of  its  own  ;  but 
none,  except  gold,  has  reached  that  highest  degree  of 
perfection  of  which  it  is  capable.  For  all  common 
metals  there  is  a  transient  and  a  perfect  state  of 
inward  completeness,  and  this  perfect  state  they  attain 
either  through  the  slow  operation  of  Nature,  or 
through  the  sudden  transformatory  power  of  our  Stone. 
We  must,  however,  add  that  the  imperfect  metals 
form  part  of  the  great  plan  and  design  of  Nature, 
though  they  are  in  course  of  transformation  into  gold. 
For  a  large  number  of  very  useful  and  indispensable 
tools  and  utensils  could  not  be  provided  at  all  if  there 
were  no  copper,  iron,  tin,  or  lead,  and  if  all  metals 


§  40]  THE   ALCHEMISTS  61 

were  either  silver  or  gold.  For  this  beneficent  reason 
Nature  has  furnished  us  with  the  metallic  substance  in 
all  its  different  stages  of  development,  from  iron,  or 
the  lowest,  to  gold,  or  the  highest  state  of  metallic 
perfection.  Nature  is  ever  studying  variety,  and,  for 
that  reason,  instead  of  covering  the  whole  face  of  the 
earth  with  water,  has  evolved  out  of  that  elementary 
substance  a  great  diversity  of  forms,  embracing  the 
whole  animal,  vegetable  and  mineral  world.  It  is,  in 
like  manner,  for  the  use  of  men  that  Nature  has  differ- 
entiated the  metallic  substance  into  a  great  variety  of 
species  and  forms."  H  According  to  this  interesting 
alchemistic  work,  the  Art  of  Alchemy  consists,  not  in 
reducing  the  imperfect  metals  to  their  first  substance, 
but  in  carrying  forward  Nature's  work,  developing  the 
imperfect  metals  to  perfection  and  removing  their 
impure  sulphur. 

§  40.  Nicolas  Flamel  (see  plate  8)  was  born  about 

1330,  probably  in  Paris.     His  parents  were  poor,  and 

Nicolas  took  up  the  trade  of  a  scrivener. 

Nicolas        ii^  tj^g  course  of  time,  Flamel  became  a 
Flamel  ,  ,  ,  , 

(1330-1418).      ^^^y  wealthy  man  and,  at  the  same  time, 

it  appears,  one  who  exhibited  consider- 
able munificence.  This  increase  in  Flamel's  wealth 
has  been  attributed  to  supposed  success  in  the  Her- 
metic Art.  We  are  told  that  a  remarkable  book  came 
into  the  young  scrivener  s  possession,  which,  at  first, 
he  was  unable  to  understand,  until,  at  last,  he  had  the 
good  fortune  to  meet  an  adept  who  translated  its  mys- 
teries for  him.  This  book  revealed  the  occult  secrets 
of  Alchemy,  and  by  its  means  Nicolas  was  enabled 

'^  Peter  Bonus  :    T/ie  New  Pearl  of  Great  Price  (Mr.  A.  E. 
Waite's  translation,  pp.   176-177). 


52  ALCHEMY  [§  41 

to  obtain  immense  quantities  of  gold.  This  story, 
however,  appears  to  be  of  a  legendary  nature,  and  it 
seems  more  likely  that  Flamel's  riches  resulted  from  his 
business  as  a  scrivener  and  from  moneylending.  At 
any  rate,  all  of  the  alchemistic  works  attributed  to 
Flamel  are  of  more  or  less  questionable  origin.  One 
of  these,  entitled  A  Short  Tract,  or  Philosophical 
Summary,  will  be  found  in  The  Hermetic  Museum. 
It  is  a  very  brief  work,  supporting  the  sulphur- 
mercury  theory. 

§  41.  Probably  the  most  celebrated  of  all  alchemistic 
books   is   the   work   known   as   Triumph- Wagen  des 

Antimonii.     A  Latin  translation  with  a 
"  Basil  Valen-  ^  l      t-i_      j  ^r       i    •      • 

tine  "and      commentary   by    1  heodore   Kerckrmgius 

*'TheTrium-  was  published  in  1685,  and  an  English 
phal  Chariot^  translation  of  this  version  by  Mr. 
A.  E.  Waite  appeared  in  1893.  The 
author  describes  himself  as  ''  Basil  Valentine,  a 
Benedictine  monk."  In  his  '' Practica,''  another  alche- 
mistic work,  he  says  :  '*  When  I  had  emptied  to  the 
dregs  the  cup  of  human  suffering,  I  was  led  to  con- 
sider the  wretchedness  of  this  world,  and  the  fearful 
consequences  of  our  first  parents'  disobedience  .  .  . 
I  made  haste  to  withdraw  myself  from  the  evil  world, 
to  bid  farewell  to  it,  and  to  devote  myself  to  the 
Service  of  God."i5  He  proceeds  to  relate  that  he 
entered  a  monastery,  but  finding  that  he  had  some  time 
on  his  hands  after  performing  his  daily  work  and 
devotions,  and  not  wishing  to  pass  this  time  in  idle- 
ness, he  took  up  the  study  of  Alchemy,  ''the  investiga- 
tion  of  those   natural    secrets    by  which    God    has 

'5  "Basil  Valentine":    The    '' PracHca"   (see    The  Hermetic 
Museum,  vol.  i.  p.   313). 


PLATE  8. 


'o  face  pa^e  52] 


§  42]  THE  ALCHEMISTS  53 

shadowed  out  eternal  things,"  and  at  last  his  labours 
were  rewarded  by  the  discovery  of  a  Stone  most  potent 
in  the  curing  of  diseases.  In  The  Triumphal  Chariot 
of  Antimony  are  accurately  described  a  large  number 
of  antimonial  preparations,  and  as  Basil  was  supposed 
to  have  written  this  work  some  time  in  the  fifteenth 
century,  these  preparations  were  accordingly  concluded 
to  have  been,  for  the  most  part,  his  own  discoveries. 
He  defends  with  the  utmost  vigour  the  medicinal 
values  of  antimony,  and  criticises  in  terms  far  from 
mild  the  physicians  of  his  day.  On  account  of  this 
work  Basil  Valentine  has  ranked  very  high  as  an 
experimental  chemist ;  but  from  quite  early  times  its 
date  and  authorship  have  been  regarded  alike  as 
doubtful  ;  and  it  appears  from  the  researches  of  the 
late  Professor  Schorlemmer  "to  be  an  undoubted 
forgery  dating  from  about  1600,  the  information 
being  culled  from  the  works  of  other  writers.  .  .  ."^^ 
Probably  the  other  works  ascribed  to  Basil  Valentine 
are  of  a  like  nature.  The  Triumphal  Chariot  of 
Antimony  does,  however,  give  an  accurate  account  of 
the  knowledge  of  antimony  of  this  time,  and  the 
pseudo-Valentine  shows  himself  to  have  been  a  man 
of  considerable  experience  with  regard  to  this  subject. 
§  42.  Isaac  of  Holland  and  a  countryman  of  the  same 
name,  probably  his  son,  are  said  to  have  been  the  first 
J  .  Dutch  alchemists.  They  are  supposed 
Holland  to  have  lived  during  the  fifteenth  century, 
(15tli  Cen-  but  of  their  lives  nothing  is  known. 
^"^  Isaac,   although  not   free  from  supersti- 

tious   opinions,    appears    to    have   been   a   practical 

''  Sir  H.   E.  RoscoE,  F.R.S.,  and  C  Schorlemmer,  F.R.S.  : 
A  Treatise  on  Chemistry y  vol.  i.   (1905),  p.  9. 


54  ALCHEMY  [§  43 

chemist,  and  his  works,  which  abound  in  recipes,  were 
held  in  great  esteem  by  Paracelsus  and  other  alche- 
mists. He  held  that  all  things  in  this  world  are  of  a 
dual  nature,  partly  good  and  partly  bad.  ''  .  .  .  All 
that  God  hath  created  good  in  the  upper  part  of  the 
world,"  he  writes,  "  are  perfect  and  uncorruptible,  as 
the  heaven :  but  whatsoever  in  these  lower  parts, 
whether  it  be  in  beasts,  fishes,  and  all  manner  of 
sensible  creatures,  hearbs  or  plants,  it  is  indued  with  a 
double  nature,  that  is  to  say,  perfect,  and  unperfect ; 
the  perfect  nature  is  called  the  Quintessence,  the  un- 
perfect the  Feces  or  dreggs,  or  the  venemous  or  com- 
bustible oile.  .  .  .  God  hath  put  a  secret  nature  or 
influence  in  every  creature,  and  ...  to  every  nature 
of  one  sort  or  kind  he  hath  given  one  common  in- 
fluence and  vertue,  whether  it  bee  on  Physick  or  other 
secret  works,  which  partly  are  found  out  by  naturall 
workmanship.  And  yet  more  things  are  unknown 
than  are  apparent  to  our  senses."  ^7  He  gives  direc- 
tions for  extracting  the  Quintessence,  for  which  mar- 
vellous powers  are  claimed,  out  of  sugar  and  other 
organic  substances ;  and  he  appears  to  be  the  earliest 
known  writer  who  makes  mention  of  the  famous 
sulphur-mercury-salt  theory. 

§  43.  Bernard  Trevisan,  a  French  count  of  the 
fifteenth  century,  squandered  enormous  sums  of  money 
in  the  search  for  the  Stone,  in  which  the  whole  oi 
his  life  and  energies  were  engaged.  He  seems  to 
have  become  the  dupe  of  one  charlatan  after  another, 

•'  One  hundred  and  Fourteen  Experiments  and  Cures  of  the  Famous 
Physitian  Theophrastus  Paracelsus^  whereunto  is  added  .  .  .  certain 
Secrets  of  Isaac  Hollandus,  concerning  the  Vegetall  and  Animall 
Work  (1652),  p.  35. 


§  M]  THE  ALCHEMISTS  55 

but  at  last,  at  a  ripe  old  age,  he  says  that  his  labours 

were  rewarded,  and  that  he  successfully  performed  the 

magnum   opus.      In  a  short,  but  rather 

Bernard       obscure  work,  he  speaks  of  the  Philoso- 
Trevisan 
(1406-1490).     pher  s    Stone    in   the    following   words : 

"This  Stone  then  is  compounded  of  a 

Body  and  Spirit,  or  of  a  volatile  and  fixed  Substance, 

and  that  is  therefore  done,  because  nothing  in  the  World 

can  be  generated  and  brought  to  light  without  these 

two  Substances,  to  wit,  a  Male  and  Female  :    From 

whence  it  appeareth,  that  although  these  two  Substances 

are  not  of  one  and  the  same  species,  yet  one  Stone 

doth  thence  arise,  and  although  they  appear  and  are 

said  to  be  two  Substances,  yet  in  truth  it  is  but  one,  to 

wit,  Argent-vivey  ^^     He  appears,  however,  to  have 

added  nothing  to  our  knowledge  of  chemical  science. 

§  44.  Sir  George  Ripley,  an  eminent  alchemistic 

philosopher    of   the    fifteenth  century,  entered  upon 

a  monastic   life  when   a   youth,   becom- 

Sir  George      jj^g    ^^^      ^f     ^^    canons    regular     of 

yi4 7-1490?).    Bridlington.       After    some     travels    he 

returned  to  England  and  obtaining  leave 
from  the  Pope  to  live  in  solitude,  he  devoted  himself 
to  the  study  of  the  Hermetic  Art.  His  chief  work 
is  The  Compound  of  Alchymie  ,  .  .  conteining  twelve 
GateSy  which  was  written  in  1471.  In  this  curious 
work,  we  learn  that  there  are  twelve  processes  neces- 
sary for  the  achievement  of  the  magnum  opuSy  namely, 
Calcination,  Solution,  Separation,  Conjunction,  Putre- 
faction, Congelation,  Cibation,  Sublimation,  Fermen- 

'^  Bernard,  Earl  of  Trevisan  :  A  Treatise  of  the  Philosophers 
StonCy  1683  (see  Collectanea  Chymica :  A  Collection  of  Ten 
Several  Treatises  in  Chemistry ^   1684,  p.  91). 


66  ALCHEMY  [§  4S 

tation,  Exaltation,  Multiplication,  and  Projection. 
These  are  likened  to  the  twelve  gates  of  a  castle 
which  the  philosopher  must  enter.  At  the  conclusion 
of  the  twelfth  gate,  Ripley  says  : — 

**  Now  thou  hast  conqueryd  the  twelve  Gates ^ 

And  all  the  Castell  thou  holdyst  at  wyll, 

Keep  thy  Secretts  in  store  unto  thy  selve  ; 

And  the  commaundements  of  God  looke  thou  fulfuU: 

In  fyer  conteinue  thy  glas  styll, 

And  Multeply  thy  Medcyns  ay  more  and  more, 
For  wyse  men  done  say  store  ys  no  sore.^^  '^ 

At  the  conclusion  of  the  work  he  tells  us  that  in  all 
that  he  wrote  before  he  was  mistaken  ;  he  says  : — 

"  I  made  Solucyo7is  full  many  a  one, 

Of  Spyrytts,  Ferments,  Salts,  Yerne  and  Steele; 

Wenyng  so  to  make  the  Phylosophers  Stone : 

But  fynally  I  lost  eche  dele. 

After  my  Boks  yet  wrought  I  well ; 
Whych  evermore  untrue  I  provyd. 
That  made  me  oft  full  sore  agrevyd."^° 

Ripley  did  much  to  popularise  the  works  of  Ray- 
mond Lully  in  England,  but  does  not  appear  to  have 
added  to  the  knowledge  of  practical  chemistry.  His 
Bosom  Book,  which  contains  an  alleged  method  for 
preparing  the  Stone,  will  be  found  in  the  Collectanea 
Chemica  (1893). 

§  45.  Thomas  Norton,  the  author  of  the  celebrated 
Or dinall  of  Alchemy,  was  probably  born  shortly  before 

'^  Sir  George  Ripley  :  The  Compound  of  Alchemy  (see 
Tlieatrum  Chemicum  Britannicum,  edited  by  Elias  Ashmole,  1652, 
p.   186). 

^  Ibid.  p.  189. 


§45]  THE   ALCHEMISTS  57 

the  commencement  of     the  fifteenth   century.      The 

Ordinall,  which  is  written  in  verse  (and  which    will 

be  found  in  Ashmole's  Theatrum  Chemi- 

Thomas        ^^^^^     Britannicum),  ^i      was      published 
Norton   15th  ,        ,        ^\  i      >      -j      .-. 

Century).       anonymously,    but    the  authors    identity 

is    revealed  by  a  curious  device.      The 

initial    syllables   of   the  proem    and   of  the   first  six 

chapters,  together  with  the  first  line  of  the  seventh 

chapter,   give  the  following  couplet  : — 

"Tomais  Norton  of  Briseto, 
A  parfet  Master  ye  male  him  call  trowe." 

Samuel  Norton,  the  grandson  of  Thomas,  who  was 
also  an  alchemist,  says  that  Thomas  Norton  was  a 
member  of  the  privy  chamber  of  Edward  IV. 
Norton's  distinctive  views  regarding  the  generation 
of  the  metals  we  have  already  mentioned  (see  §  20). 
He  taught  that  true  knowledge  of  the  Art  of  Alchemy 
could  only  be  obtained  by  word  of  mouth  from  an 
adept,  and  in  his  Ordinall  he  gives  an  account  of  his 
own  initiation.  He  tells  us  that  he  was  instructed  by 
his  master  (probably  Sir  George  Ripley)  and  learnt 
the  secrets  of  the  Art  in  forty  days,  at  the  age  of 
twenty-eight.  He  does  not,  however,  appear  to  have 
reaped  the  fruits  of  this  knowledge.  Twice,  he  tells 
us,  did  he  prepare  the  Elixir,  and  twice  was  it  stolen 
from  him  ;  and  he  is  said  to  have  died  in  1477,  after 
ruining  himself  and  his  friends  by  his  unsuccessful 
experiments. 

^'  A   prose  version   will    be   found   in    The  Hermetic  Museum^ 
translated  back  into  English  from  a  Latin  translation  by  Maier. 


CHAPTER    IV 

THE   ALCHEMISTS   {continued) 
(b.     PARACELSUS     AND     AFTEr) 

§  46.  That  erratic  genius,  Paracelsus — or,  to  give 

him  his  correct  name,    PhiHp  (?)    Aureole  (?)  Theo- 

phrast     Bombast     von     Hohenheim — 

a493^1^n  ^^^^^  portrait  forms  the  frontispiece  to 
the  present  work — was  born  at  Einsiedeln 
in  Switzerland  in  1493.  He  studied  the  alchemistic 
and  medical  arts  under  his  father,  who  was  a  physi- 
cian, and  continued  his  studies  later  at  the  University 
of  Basle.  He  also  gave  some  time  to  the  study  of 
magic  and  the  occult  sciences  under  the  famous 
Trithemius  of  Spanheim.  Paracelsus,  however,  found 
the  merely  theoretical  **  book  learning "  of  the 
university  curriculum  unsatisfactory  and  betook  him- 
self to  the  mines,  where  he  might  study  the  nature  of 
metals  at  first  hand.  He  then  spent  several  years  in 
travelling,  visiting  some  of  the  chief  countries  of 
Europe.  At  last  he  returned  to  Basle,  the  chair  of 
Medical  Science  of  his  old  university  being  bestowed 
upon  him.  The  works  of  Isaac  of  Holland  had  inspired 
him  with  the  desire  to  improve  upon  the  medical 
science  of  his  day,  and  in  his  lectures  (which  were, 

58 


§  46]  THE  ALCHEMISTS  59 

contrary  to  the  usual  custom,  delivered  not  in  Latin, 
but  in  the  German  language)  he  denounced  in  violent 
terms  the  teachings  of  Galen  and  Avicenna,  who 
were  until  then  the  accredited  authorities  on  medical 
matters.  His  use  of  the  German  tongue,  his  coarse- 
ness in  criticism  and  his  intense  self-esteem,  combined 
with  the  fact  that  he  did  lay  bare  many  of  the  medical 
follies  and  frauds  of  his  day,  brought  him  into  very 
general  dislike  with  the  rest  of  the  physicians,  and 
the  municipal  authorities  siding  with  the  aggrieved 
apothecaries  and  physicians,  whose  methods  Paracelsus 
had  exposed,  he  fled  from  Basle  and  resumed  his 
former  roving  life.  He  was,  so  we  are  told,  a  man  of 
very  intemperate  habits,  being  seldom  sober  (a  state- 
ment seriously  open  to  doubt) ;  but  on  the  other 
hand,  he  certainly  accomplished  a  very  large  number 
of  most  remarkable  cures,  and,  judging  from  his 
writings,  he  was  inspired  by  lofty  and  noble  ideals 
and  a  fervent  belief  in  the  Christian  religion.  He 
died  in   1541. 

Paracelsus  combined  in  himself  such  opposite 
characteristics  that  it  is  a  matter  of  difficulty  to 
criticise  him  aright.  As  says  Professor  Ferguson  :  ''  It 
is  most  difficult  ...  to  ascertain  what  his  true 
character  really  was,  to  appreciate  aright  this  man  of 
fervid  imagination,  of  powerful  and  persistent  convic- 
tion, of  unbated  honesty  and  love  of  truth,  of  keen 
insight  into  the  errors  (as  he  thought  them)  of  his 
time,  of  a  merciless  will  to  lay  bare  these  errors  and 
to  reform  the  abuses  to  which  they  gave  rise,  who  in 
an  instant  offends  by  his  boasting,  his  grossness,  his 
want  of  self-respect.  It  is  a  problem  how  to  reconcile 
his  ignorance,  his  weakness,  his  superstition,  his  crude 


60  ALCHEMY  [§  47 

notions,  his  erroneous  observations,  his  ridiculous 
inferences  and  theories,  with  his  grasp  of  method,  his 
lofty  views  of  the  true  scope  of  medicine,  his  lucid 
statements,  his  incisive  and  epigrammatic  criticisms  of 
men  and  motives."  '  It  is  also  a  problem  of  con- 
siderable difficulty  to  determine  which  of  the  many 
books  attributed  to  him  are  really  his  genuine  works, 
and  consequently  what  his  views  on  certain  points 
exactly  were. 

§  47.   Paracelsus   was    the   first   to    recognise    the 
desirability   of    investigating    the    physical    universe 

with    a   motive    other   than   alchemistic. 
Paracelsus     ^^  taught  that  '*  the  object  of  chemistry 

is  not  to  make  gold,  but  to  prepare 
medicines,"  and  founded  the  school  of  latro-chemistry 
or  Medical  Chemistry.  This  synthesis  of  chemistry 
with  medicine  was  of  very  great  benefit  to  each 
science ;  new  possibilities  of  chemical  investigation 
were  opened  up  now  that  the  aim  was  not  purely 
alchemistic.  Paracelsus's  central  theory  was  that  of 
the  analogy  between  man,  the  microcosm,  and  the 
world  or  macrocosm.  He  regarded  all  the  actions 
that  go  on  in  the  human  body  as  of  a  chemical  nature, 
and  he  thought  that  illness  was  the  result  of  a  dispro- 
portion in  the  body  between  the  quantities  of  the 
three  great  principles — sulphur,  mercury,  and  salt — 
which  he  regarded  as  constituting  all  things ;  for 
example,  he  considered  an  excess  of  sulphur  as  the 
cause  of  fever,  since  sulphur  was  the  fiery  principle,  &c. 
The  basis  of  the  iatro-chemical  doctrines,  namely,  that 
the  healthy  human  body  is  a  particular  combination  of 

^  John   Ferguson,  M.A.  :   Article   "Paracelsus,"  Encyclopcedia 
Britannica,  9th  edition  (1885),  vol.  xviii.  p.  236. 


§  48]  THE   ALCHEMISTS  61 

chemical  substances  :  illness  the  result  of  some  change 
in  this  combination,  and  hence  curable  only  by  chemical 
medicines,  expresses  a  certain  truth,  and  is  un- 
doubtedly a  great  improvement  upon  the  ideas  of 
the  ancients.  But  in  the  elaboration  of  his  medical 
doctrines  Paracelsus  fell  a  prey  to  exaggeration  and 
the  fantastic,  and  many  of  his  theories  appear  to  be 
highly  ridiculous.  This  extravagance  is  also  very 
pronounced  in  the  alchemistic  works  attributed  to 
him  ;  for  example,  the  belief  in  the  artificial  creation 
of  minute  living  creatures  resembling  men  (called 
*'  homunculi  ") — a  belief  of  the  utmost  absurdity,  if  we 
are  to  understand  it  literally.  On  the  other  hand,  his 
writings  do  contain  much  true  teaching  of  a  mystical 
nature ;  his  doctrine  of  the  correspondence  of  man 
with  the  universe  considered  as  a  whole,  for 
example,  certainly  being  radically  true,  though 
fantastically  stated  and  developed  by  Paracelsus 
himself. 

§  48.  Between   the   pupils   of   Paracelsus   and  the 

older  school  of  medicine,  as  might  well  be  supposed,  a 

battle  royal  was  waged  for  a  considerable 

latro-         ^jj^^    which  ultimately  concluded,  if  not 
Chemistry. 

with    a    full    vindication    of  Paracelsus  s 

teaching,  yet  with  the  acceptance  of  the  fundamental 

iatro-chemical  doctrines.    Henceforward  it  is  necessary 

to  distinguish  between  the  chemists  and  the  alchemists 

— to  distinguish  those  who  pursued  chemical  studies 

with  the  object  of  discovering  and  preparing  useful 

medicines,  and  later  those  who  pursued  such  studies 

for  their  own  sake,  from  those  whose  object  was  the 

transmutation  of  the  ''base"  metals  into  gold,  whether 

from   purely   selfish    motives,    or  with  the   desire  to 


62  ALCHEMY  [§  49 

demonstrate  on  the  physical  plane  the  validity  of  the 
doctrines  of  Mysticism.  However,  during  the  follow- 
ing century  or  two  we  find,  very  often,  the  chemist 
and  the  alchemist  united  in  one  and  the  same  person. 
Men  such  as  Glauber  and  Boyle,  whose  names  will 
ever  be  remembered  by  chemists,  did  not  doubt  the 
possibility  of  performing  the  magnum  opus.  In  the 
present  chapter,  however,  we  shall  confine  our  atten- 
tion for  the  most  part  to  those  men  who  may  be 
regarded,  for  one  reason  or  another,  particularly  as 
alchemists.  And  the  alchemists  of  the  period  we  are 
now  considering  present  a  very  great  diversity.  On 
the  one  hand,  we  have  men  of  much  chemical  know- 
ledge and  skill  such  as  Libavius  and  van  Helmont,  on 
the  other  hand  we  have  those  who  stand  equally  as 
high  as  exponents  of  mystic  wisdom — men  such  as 
Jacob  Boehme  and,  to  a  less  extent,  Thomas  Vaughan. 
We  have  those,  who,  although  they  did  not  enrich  the 
science  of  Chemistry  with  any  new  discoveries,  were, 
nevertheless,  regarded  as  masters  of  the  Hermetic 
Art  ;  and,  finally,  we  have  alchemists  of  the  Edward 
Kelley  and  George  Starkey  type,  whose  main  object 
was  their  own  enrichment  at  their  neighbours'  expense. 
Before,  however,  proceeding  to  an  account  of  the  lives 
and  teachings  of  these  men,  there  is  one  curious  matter 
— perhaps  the  most  remarkable  of  all  historical  curi- 
osities— that  calls  for  some  brief  consideration.  We 
refer  to  the  **  far-famed  "  Rosicrucian  Society. 

§  49.  The  exoteric  history  of  the  Rosicrucian 
Society  commences  with  the  year  1614.  In  that 
year  there  was  published  at  Cassel  in  Germany 
a  pamphlet  entitled  The  Discovery  of  the  Fraternity 
of  the  Meritorious  Order  of  the  Rosy  Cross  y  addressed  to 


§  49]  THE   ALCHEMISTS  63 

the  Learned  in  General  and  the  Governors  of  Europe, 

After  a  discussion  of  the  momentous  question  of  the 

general  reformation  of  the  world,  which 

^^®  was    to    be    accomplished    throuerh    the 

Rosicmcian  ,.  ^  -    ,  r     i 

Society.        medium  oi   a  secret  confederacy  of  the 

wisest  and  most  philanthropic  men,  the 
pamphlet  proceeds  to  inform  its  readers  that  such 
an  association  is  in  existence,  founded  over  one 
hundred  years  ago  by  the  famous  C.R.C.,  grand 
initiate  in  the  mysteries  of  Alchemy,  whose  history 
(which  is  clearly  of  a  fabulous  or  symbolical  nature)  is 
given.  The  book  concludes  by  inviting  the  wise  men 
of  the  time  to  join  the  Fraternity,  directing  those  who 
wished  to  do  so  to  indicate  their  desire  by  the  publica- 
tion of  printed  letters,  which  should  come  into  the 
hands  of  the  Brotherhood.  As  might  well  be  expected, 
the  pamphlet  was  the  cause  of  considerable  interest  and 
excitement,  but  although  many  letters  were  printed, 
apparently  none  of  them  were  vouchsafed  a  reply. 
The  following  year  a  further  pamphlet  appeared,  The 
Confession  of  the  Rosicrucian  Fraternity,  addressed  to 
the  Learned  in  Eur  ope  y  and  in  1616,  The  Chymical 
Nuptials  of  Christian  Rosencreutz,  This  latter  book 
is  a  remarkable  allegorical  romance,  describing  how  an 
old  man,  a  lifelong  student  of  the  alchemistic  Art,  was 
present  at  the  accomplishment  of  the  magnum  opus  in 
the  year  1459.  An  enormous  amount  of  contro- 
versy took  place ;  it  was  plain  to  some  that  the 
Society  had  deluded  them,  whilst  others  hotly  main- 
tained its  claims  ;  but  after  about  four  years  had  passed, 
the  excitement  had  subsided,  and  the  subject  ceased, 
for  the  time  being,  to  arouse  any  particular  interest. 
Some  writers,  even  in  recent  times,  more  gifted  for 


64  ALCHEMY  [§  49 

romance  than  for  historical  research,  have  seen  in  the 
Rosicrucian  Society  a  secret  confederacy  of  immense 
antiquity  and  of  stupendous  powers,  consisting  of  the 
great  initiates  of  all  ages,  supposed  to  be  in  posses- 
sion of  the  arch  secrets  of  alchemistic  art.  It  is 
abundantly  evident,  however,  that  it  was  nothing  of 
the  sort.  It  is  clear  from  an  examination  of  the 
pamphlets  already  mentioned  that  they  are  animated 
by  Lutheran  ideals ;  and  it  is  of  interest  to  note  that 
Luther's  seal  contained  both  the  cross  and  the  rose 
— whence  the  term  ''  Rosicrucian."  The  generally 
accepted  theory  regards  the  pamphlets  as  a  sort  of 
elaborate  hoax  perpetrated  by  Valentine  Andrea,  a 
young  and  benevolent  Lutheran  divine;  but  more,  how- 
ever, than  a  mere  hoax.  As  the  late  Mr.  R.  A.  Vaughan 
wrote  :  "  .  .  .  this  Andrea  writes  the  Discovery  of  the 
Rosicrucian  Brotherhood,  a  jeu-cC esprit  with  a  serious 
purpose,  just  as  an  experiment  to  see  whether  some- 
thing cannot  be  done  by  combined  effort  to  remedy  the 
defect  and  abuses — social,  educational,  and  religious, 
so  lamented  by  all  good  men.  He  thought  there  were 
many  Andreas  scattered  throughout  Europe — how 
powerful  would  be  their  united  systematic  action  !  .  .  . 
He  hoped  that  the  few  nobler  minds  whom  he  desired 
to  organize  would  see  through  the  veil  of  fiction  in 
which  he  had  invested  his  proposal  ;  that  he  might 
communicate  personally  with  some  such,  if  they  should 
appear  ;  or  that  his  book  might  lead  them  to  form 
among  themselves  a  practical  philanthropic  con- 
federacy, answering  to  the  serious  purpose  he  had 
embodied     in     his    fiction."  ^       His    scheme    was    a 

*  Robert   Alfred  Vaughan,   B.A.  :    Hours  with   the  Mystics 
(yth  edition,   1895),  vol.  ii.  bk.  8,  chap.  ix.  p.   134. 


§  50]  THE   ALCHEMISTS  65 

failure,  and  on  seeing  its  result,   Andrea,  not  daring 

to  reveal  himself  as  the  author  of  the  pamphlets,  did 

his  best  to  put  a  stop  to  the  folly  by   writing  several 

works  in  criticism  of  the  Society  and  its  claims.     Mr. 

A.   E.   Waite,   however,   whose  work  on  the  subject 

should  be  consulted  for  further   information,    rejects 

this  theory,  and  suggests  that  the  Rosicrucian  Society 

was   probably    identical    with    the   Militia   Crucifera 

Evangelica,  a  secret  society  founded  in  Nuremburg  by 

the  Lutheran  alchemist  and  mystic,  Simon  Studion.3 

§  50.  We  must  now  turn  our  attention  to  the  lives 

and  teachings  of  the  alchemists  of  the  period  under 

consideration,    treating  them,    as   far   as 

Thomas        possible,  in  chronoloe^ical  order  ;  whence 
Charnock        i        ^  i  i        •  i 

ri524r-1581).     ^"^    ^''^^   alchemist   to   come   under   our 

notice  is  Thomas  Charnock. 
Thomas  Charnock  was  born  at  Faversham  (Kent), 
either  in  the  year  1524  or  in  1526.  After  some 
travels  over  England  he  settled  at  Oxford,  carrying 
on  experiments  in  Alchemy.  In  1557  he  wrote  his 
Breviary  of  Philosophy.  This  work  is  almost  entirely 
autobiographical,  describing  Charnock's  alchemistic 
experiences.  He  tells  us  that  he  was  initiated  into 
the  mysteries  of  the  Hermetic  Art  by  a  certain  James 
S.  of  Salisbury  ;  he  also  had  another  master,  an  old 
blind  man,  who  instructed  Charnock  on  his  death-bed. 
Unfortunately,  however,  Thomas  was  doomed  to 
failure  in  his  experiments.  On  the  first  attempt  his 
apparatus  caught  fire  and  his  work  was  destroyed. 
His  next  experiments  were  ruined  by  the  negligence 
of  a  servant.      His  final  misfortune  shall  be  described 

3  Arthur  Edward  Waite  :  The  RealHistory  of  the  Rosicrucians^ 

(1887). 

6 


66  ALCHEMY  [§  51 

in  his  own  words.  He  had  started  the  work  for  a 
third  time,  and  had  spent  much  money  on  his  fire, 
hoping  to  be  shortly  rewarded.  .  .  . 

"Then  a  Gentlemen  that  oughte  me  great  mallice 
Caused  me  to  be  prest  to  goe  serve  at  Calfys  : 
When  I  saw  there  was  no  other  boote, 
But  that  I  must  goe  spight  of  my  heart  roote  ; 
In  my  fury  I  tooke  a  Hatchet  in  my  hand, 
And  brake  all  my  Worke  whereas  it  did  stand."  * 

Thomas  Charnock  married  in  1562  a  Miss  Agnes 
Norden.  He  died  in  158 1.  It  is,  perhaps,  unneces- 
sary to  say  that  his  name  does  not  appear  in  the 
history  of  Chemistry. 

§  51.  Andreas    Libavius   was   born    at    Halle   in 

Germany  in    1540,  where  he  studied   medicine   and 

practiced  for  a  short  time  as  a  physician. 

Andreas       ^^     accepted    the     fundamental    iatro- 
Libavms  1        •     1     1         •  1 

(1540-1616.)     chemical   doctrmes,    at   the    same    time, 

however,  criticising  certain  of  the  more 

extravagant  views  expressed  by  Paracelsus.     He  was 

a  firm  believer  in    the  transmutation  of  the  metals, 

but   his  own   activities   were   chiefly  directed  to  the 

preparation    of    new    and    better     medicines.       He 

enriched  the  science  of  Chemistry  by  many  valuable 

discoveries,  and  tin  tetra-chloride,  which  he  was  the  first 

to   prepare,  is   still   known  by  the  name  of  spiritus 

fumans  Libavii,     Libavius  was  a  man   possessed  of 

keen    powers    of    observation  ;     and   his    work    on 

Chemistry,    which    contains    a    full    account   of  the 

knowledge    of    the    science    of    his    time,    may    be 

^  Thomas  Charnock  :  The  Breviary  of  Naturall  Philosophy  (see 
Theatrum  Chemicum Britannicumy  edited  by  Ashmole,  1652,  p.  295.) 


§  52]  THE  ALCHEMISTS  67 

regarded    as   the  first  text-book   of  Chemistry.       It 

was  held   in  high   esteem   for  a   considerable   time, 

being  reprinted  on  several  occasions. 

§  52.  Edward  Kelley   or  Kelly  (see  plate  9)  was 

born   at  Worcester   on   August    i,    1555.      His    life 

_  is    so    obscured    by    various    traditions 

Edward  ,        .     .  .../    .  .  . 

Kelley        ^^^^  ^^  ^^  very  dimcult  to  arrive  at   the 

(1555-1595)      truth    concerning    it.     The    latest,    and 

^as^^^sT  F^b^^^y  *^  best,  account  will  be  found 
in  Miss  Charlotte  Fell  Smith's  JoAn 
Dee  (1909).  Edward  Kelley,  according  to  some 
accounts,  was  brought  up  as  an  apothecary. 5  He  is 
also  said  to  have  entered  Oxford  University  under 
the  pseudonym  of  Talbot.^  Later,  he  practised  as  a 
notary  in  London.  He  is  said  to  have  committed  a 
forgery,  for  which  he  had  his  ears  cropped ;  but 
another  account,  which  supposes  him  to  have  avoided 
this  penalty  by  making  his  escape  to  Wales,  is  not 
improbable.  Other  crimes  of  which  he  is  accused  are 
coining  and  necromancy.  He  was  probably  not  guilty 
of  all  these  crimes,  but  that  he  was  undoubtedly  a 
charlatan  and  profligate  the  sequel  will  make  plain. 
We  are  told  that  about  the  time  of  his  alleged 
escape  to  Wales,  whilst  in  the  neighbourhood  of 
Glastonbury  Abbey,  he  became  possessed,  by  a  lucky 
chance,  of  a  manuscript  by  St.  Dunstan  setting  forth 
the  grand  secrets  of  Alchemy,  together  with  some  of 
the  two  transmuting  tinctures,  both  white  and  red, 7 

5  See,  for  example,  William  Lilly  :  History  of  His  Life  and 
Times  (1715,  reprinted  in  1822,  p.  227). 

^  See  Anthony  A  Wood's  account  of  Kelle/s  life  in  Athence 
Oxonienses  (3rd  edition,  edited  by  Philip  Bliss,  vol.  i.  col.  639.) 

^  William  Lilly,  the  astrologer,  in  his  History  of  His  Life  and 


68  ALCHEMY  [§  52 

which  had  been  discovered  in  a  tomb  near  by.  His 
friendship  with  John  Dee,  or  Dr.  Dee  as  he  is 
generally  called,  commenced  in  1582.  Now,  John 
Dee  (see  plate  9)  was  undoubtedly  a  mathematician 
of  considerable  erudition.  He  was  also  an  astrologer, 
and  was  much  interested  in  experiments  in  **  crystal- 
gazing,"  for  which  purpose  he  employed  a  speculum  of 
polished  cannel-coal,  and  by  means  of  which  he  believed 
that  he  had  communication  with  the  inhabitants  of 
spiritual  spheres.  It  appears  that  Kelley,  who  pro- 
bably did  possess  some  mediumistic  powers,  the  results 
of  which  he  augmented  by  means  of  fraud,  interested 
himself  in  these  experiments,  and  not  only  became  the 
doctor's  "  scryer,"  but  also  gulled  him  into  the  belief 
that  he  was  in  the  possession  of  the  arch-secrets  of 
Alchemy.  In  1583,  Kelley  and  his  learned  dupe  left 
England  together  with  their  wives  and  a  Polish 
nobleman,  staying  firstly  at  Cracovia  and  afterwards 
at  Prague,  where  it  is  not  unlikely  that  the  Emperor 
Rudolph  II.  knighted  Kelley.  As  instances  of  the 
belief  which  the  doctor  had  in  Kelley 's  powers  as 
an  alchemist,  we  may  note  that  in  his  Private  Diary 
under  the  date  December  19,  1586,  Dee  records  that 
Kelley  performed  a  transmutation  for  the  benefit  of 
one  Edward  Garland  and  his  brother  Francis ;  ^  and 


Times  (1822  reprint,  pp.  225-226),  relates  a  different  story  regarding 
the  manner  in  which  Kelley  is  supposed  to  have  obtained  the  Great 
Medicine,  but  as  it  is  told  at  third  hand,  it  is  of  little  importance. 
We  do  not  suppose  that  there  can  be  much  doubt  that  the  truth 
was  that  Dee  and  others  were  deceived  by  some  skilful  conjuring 
tricks,  for  whatever  else  Kelley  may  have  been,  he  certainly  was  a 
very  ingenious  fellow. 

®  The  Private  Diary  of  Dr.  John  Dee  (The  Camden  Society, 
1842),  p.  22. 


PLATE 


r"  """''""iiJMi 

■■ 

191 

[|||i|i|iiiwiinW||ffiH|M                                                           w.^^S 

Wf< 

■<§ 

^^,,_gg^ 

ml  -^'^ 

Pii'i:! !;{ iiPII 

Jo  face  i>a&e  68] 


§52]  THE   ALCHEMISTS  69 

under  the  date  May  lo,  1588,  we  find  the  following 
recorded:  "E.K.  did  open  'the  great  secret  to  me, 
God  be  thanked  !  "  9  That  he  was  not  always  without 
doubts  as  to  Kelley's  honesty,  however,  is  evident 
from  other  entries  in  his  Diary.  In  1587  occurred  an 
event  which  must  be  recorded  to  the  partners'  lasting 
shame.  To  cap  his  former  impositions,  Kelley  in- 
formed the  doctor  that  by  the  orders  of  a  spirit  which 
had  appeared  to  him  in  the  crystal,  they  were  to  share 
"  their  two  wives  in  common  " ;  to  which  arrange- 
ment, after  some  further  persuasion.  Dee  consented. 
Kelley's  profligacy  and  violent  temper,  however,  had 
already  been  the  cause  of  some  disagreement  between 
him  and  the  doctor,  and  this  incident  leading  to  a 
further  quarrel,  the  erstwhile  friends  parted.  In  1589, 
the  Emperor  Rudolph  imprisoned  Kelley,  the  price 
of  his  freedom  being  the  transmutative  secret,  or  a 
substantial  quantity  of  gold,  at  least,  prepared  by  its 
aid.  He  was,  however,  released  in  1593  ;  but  died  in 
1595)  according  to  one  account,  as  the  result  of  an 
accident  incurred  while  attempting  to  escape  from  a 
second  imprisonment.  Dee  merely  records  that  he 
received  news  to  the  effect  that  Kelley  ''  was 
slayne." 

It  was  during  his  incarceration  that  he  wrote  an 
alchemistic  work  entitled  TAe  Stone  of  the  Philo- 
sophers, which  consists  largely  of  quotations  from 
older  alchemistic  writings.  His  other  works  on 
Alchemy  were  probably  written  at  an  earlier  period. '° 

9  The  Private  Diary  of  Dr.  John  Dee  (The  Camden  Society, 
1842),  p.  27. 

'°  An  English  translation  of  Kelley's  alchemistic  works  were  pub- 
lished under  the  editorship  of  Mr.  A.  E.  Waite,  in  1893. 


70  ALCHEMY  [§  54 

§  53.  Henry  Khunrath  was  born  in  Saxony  in  the 

second   half   of  the    sixteenth    century.     He    was   a 

follower    of    Paracelsus,     and    travelled 

Henry         about  Germany,  practising  as  a  physician. 

(1560-1605).     "  This    German    alchemist,"    says    Mr. 

A.  E.  Waite,  "...  is  claimed  as  a  hiero- 

phant  of  the  psychic  side  of  the  magnum  opus,  and 

.  .  .  was   undoubtedly  aware  of  the  larger  issues  of 

Hermetic  theorems  "  ;  he  describes  Khunrath's  chief 

work,    Amphitheatrum>    Sapientice   ^terncBy    &c.,    as 

"purely  mystical  and  magical."  " 

§  54.  The    date     and    birthplace    of    Alexander 
Sethon,  a  Scottish  alchemist,  do  not  appear  to  have 
been  recorded,  but  Michael  Sendivogius 
s^th^  was    probably    born    in    Moravia    about 

(7-1604)  and     i  S^^-    Sethon,  we  are  told,  was  in  posses- 
Michael       sion  of  the  arch-secrets  of  Alchemy.     He 
(l^^'^-^l^)     visited  Holland  in  1602,  proceeded  after 
a  time  to  Italy,  and  passed  through  Basle 
to  Germany  ;  meanwhile  he  is  said  to  have  performed 
many  transmutations.    Ultimately  arriving  at  Dresden, 
however,  he  fell  into  the  clutches  of  the  young  Elector, 
Christian  II.,  who,  in  order  to  extort  his  secret,  cast 
him    into  prison,    and   put  him   to   the  torture,    but 
without  avail.     Now,  it  so  happened  that  Sendivogius, 
who  was  in  quest  of  the   Philosopher's   Stone,  was 
staying  at  Dresden,  and  hearing  of  Sethon's  imprison- 
ment obtained  permission  to  visit  him.     Sendivogius 
offered  to  effect  Sethon's  escape  in  return  for  assist- 
ance in  his  alchemistic   pursuits,   to  which   arrange- 
ment the  Scottish  alchemist  willingly  agreed.     After 
some  considerable  outlay  of  money  in  bribery,  Sen- 
"  A.  E.  Waite  ;  Lives  of  Alchemystical Philosophers  {\%ZZ),  p.  159. 


§  54]  THE  ALCHEMISTS  71 

divogius's  plan  of  escape  was  successfully  carried  out, 
and  Sethon  found  himself  a  free  man ;  but  he  refused 
to  betray  the  high  secrets  of  Hermetic  philosophy  to 
his  rescuer.  However,  before  his  death,  which  oc- 
curred shortly  afterwards,  he  presented  him  with  an 
ounce  of  the  transmutative  powder.  Sendivogius  soon 
used  up  this  powder,  we  are  told,  in  effecting  trans- 
mutations and  cures,  and,  being  fond  of  expensive 
living,  he  married  Sethon's  widow,  in  the  hope  that 
she  was  in  the  possession  of  the  transmutative  secret. 
In  this,  however,  he  was  disappointed ;  she  knew 
nothing  of  the  matter,  but  she  had  the  manuscript  of 
an  alchemistic  work  written  by  her  late  husband. 
Shortly  afterwards  Sendivogius  printed  at  Prague  a 
book  entitled  The  New  Chemical  Light  under  the  name 
of  **  Cosmopolita,"  which  is  said  to  be  this  work  of 
Sethon's  but  which  Sendivogius  claimed  for  his  own 
by  the  insertion  of  his  name  on  the  title-page,  in  the 
form  of  an  anagram.  The  tract  On  Sulphur  which  was 
printed  at  the  end  of  this  book,  however,  is  said 
to  have  been  the  genuine  work  of  the  Moravian. 
Whilst  his  powder  lasted,  Sendivogius  travelled  about, 
performing,  we  are  told,  many  transmutations.  He 
was  twice  imprisoned  in  order  to  extort  the  secrets  of 
Alchemy  from  him,  on  one  occasion  escaping,  and  on 
the  other  occasion  obtaining  his  release  from  the 
Emperor  Rudolph.  Afterwards,  he  appears  to  have 
degenerated  into  an  impostor,  but  this  is  said  to 
have  been  a  finesse  to  hide  his  true  character  as  an 
alchemistic  adept.     He  died  in  1646.12 

The    New    Chemical  Light    was    held    in    great 
esteem   by  the  alchemists.     The   first  part  treats  at 

"  SeeF.  B. :  Lives  of  Alchemy stical  Philosophers  (1815),  pp.66-69. 


72  ALCHEMY  [§  55 

length  of  the  generation  of  the  metals  and  also  of 
the  Philosopher's  Stone,  and  claims  to  be  based  on 
practical  experience.  The  seed  of  Nature,  we  are 
told,  is  one,  but  various  products  result  on  account  of 
the  different  conditions  of  development.  An  imagi- 
nary conversation  between  Mercury,  an  Alchemist  and 
Nature  which  is  appended,  is  not  without  a  touch  of 
humour.  Says  the  Alchemist,  in  despair,  "  Now  I 
see  that  I  know  nothing  ;  only  I  must  not  say  so. 
For  I  should  lose  the  good  opinion  of  my  neighbours, 
and  they  would  no  longer  entrust  me  with  money  for 
my  experiments,  I  must  therefore  go  on  saying  that 
I  know  everything  ;  for  there  are  many  that  expect 
me  to  do  great  things  for  them.  .  .  .  There  are  many 
countries,  and  many  greedy  persons  who  will  suffer 
themselves  to  be  gulled  by  my  promises  of  mountains 
of  gold.  Thus  day  will  follow  day,  and  in  the  mean- 
time the  King  or  the  donkey  will  die,  or  I  myself."  '3 
The  second  part  treats  of  the  Elements  and  Principles 
(see  §§   17  and  19). 

§  55.  Michael  Maier   (see  plate   10)  was  born  at 
Rendsberg   (in    Holstein)   about    1568.     He   studied 
medicine  assiduously,  becoming  a   most 
Michael        successful    physician,    and    he    was    en- 
(1568-1622).      nobled   by  Rudolf  II.      Later  on,   how- 
ever, he  took  up  the  subject  of  Alchemy, 
and  is  said  to  have  ruined  his  health  and  wasted  his 
fortune  in  the  pursuit  of  the  alchemistic  i^-ms  fatuus 
— the    Stone   of    the    Philosophers — travelling  about 
Germany  and  elsewhere   in  order  to  have  converse 
with    those    who    were    regarded   as   adepts    in    the 

'3  The  New  Chemical  Light,  Part  I.  (see  The  Hermetic  Museum^ 
vol.  ii.  p.  125). 


PLATE    10. 


m 
m 
m 


TrX5   5CHOLA.TRE5    COESAPv  TITVL05  DE> 

dit;hi^c  mihi   restant. 
Posse  bene  in  chri^to  vivere, posse  mori 
Michael  iMAi£RV5  come5  imperialis  coNv 

5I5TORII  ctcPHILOSOPH.  £T  MEDICINARVM 
DOCTOR. R  C  C  NOBIL.  EXEMPTVS  FOROLIM 
MEDICV5   CJ^S:ck: 


*^3^ 


[by  J.  BriuinJ 


PORTRAIT  OF 
MICHAEL  MAIER. 


§55J  THE   ALCHEMISTS  73 

Art.  He  took  a  prominent  part  in  the  famous  Rosi- 
crucian  controversy  (see  §  49),  defending  the  claims 
of  the  alleged  society  in  several  tracts.  He  is  said, 
on  the  one  hand,  to  have  been  admitted  as  a  member 
of  the  fraternity  ;  and  on  the  other  hand,  to  have 
himself  founded  a  similar  institution.  A  full  account 
of  his  views  will  be  found  in  the  Rev.  J.  B.  Craven's 
Count  Michael  Maier :  Life  and  Writings  (1910). 
He  was  a  very  learned  man,  but  his  works  are  some- 
what obscure  and  abound  in  fanciful  allegories.  He 
read  an  alchemistic  meaning  into  the  ancient  fables 
concerning  the  Egyptian  and  Greek  gods  and  heroes. 
Like  most  alchemists,  he  held  the  supposed  virtues  of 
mercury  in  high  esteem.  In  his  Lusus  Serins:  or. 
Serious  Passe-time,  for  example,  he  supposes  a  Parlia- 
ment of  the  various  creatures  of  the  world  to  meet,  in 
order  that  Man  might  choose  the  noblest  of  them 
as  king  over  all  the  rest.  The  calf,  the  sheep,  the 
goose,  the  oyster,  the  bee,  the  silkworm,  flax  and 
mercury  are  the  chosen  representatives,  each  of 
which  discourses  in  turn.  It  will  be  unnecessary  to 
state  that  Mercury  wins  the  day.  Thus  does  Maier 
eulogise  it :  "  Thou  art  the  miracle,  splendour  and 
light  of  the  world.  Thou  art  the  glory,  ornament, 
and  supporter  of  the  Earth.  Thou  art  the  Asyle, 
Anchor,  and  tye  of  the  Universe.  Next  to  the  minde 
of  Man,  God  Created  nothing  more  Noble,  more 
Glorious,  or  more  Profitable.'*  '4  His  Sudt/e  Allegory 
concerning  the  Secrets  of  Alchemy,  very  useful  to 
possess  and  pleasant  to  read,  will  be  found  in  the 
Hermetic  Museum,  together  with  his  Golden   Tripod, 

^4  Michael  Maier  :  Lusus  Serius :  or  Serious  Passe-time  (1654), 
p.  138. 


74  ALCHEMY  [§  56 

consisting  of  translations  of  '*  Valentine's  "  ''  Practica  " 
and  Twelve  Keys,  Norton's  Ordinal  and  Cremer's 
spurious  Testament. 

§  56.  Jacob  Boehme,  or  Behmen  (see  plate  ii), 
was  born  at  Alt  Seidenberg,  a  village  near  Gorlitz, 
in  1575.  His  parents  being  poor,  the 
ri575-1624.')  education  he  received  was  of  a  very 
rudimentary  nature,  and  when  his  school- 
ing days  were  over,  Jacob  was  apprenticed  to  a 
shoemaker.  His  religious  nature  caused  him  often  to 
admonish  his  fellow-apprentices,  which  behaviour  ulti- 
mately caused  him  to  be  dismissed.  He  travelled 
about  as  a  journeyman  shoemaker,  returning,  however, 
to  Gorlitz  in  1594,  where  he  married  and  settled  in 
business.  He  claims  to  have  experienced  a  wonderful 
vision  in  1598,  and  to  have  had  a  similar  vision  two 
years  later.  In  these  visions,  the  first  of  which  lasted 
for  several  days  he  believed  that  he  saw  into  the 
inmost  secrets  of  nature  ;  but  what  at  first  appeared 
dim  and  vague  became  clear  and  coherent  in  a  third 
vision,  which  he  tells  us  was  vouchsafed  to  him  in 
1 6 10.  It  was  then  that  he  wrote  his  first  book,  the 
Auroray  which  he  composed  for  himself  only,  in  order 
that  he  should  not  forget  the  mysteries  disclosed  to 
him.  At  a  later  period  he  produced  a  large  number 
of  treatises  of  a  mystical-religious  nature,  having  spent 
the  intervening  years  in  improving  his  early  education. 
These  books  aroused  the  ire  of  the  narrow-minded 
ecclesiastical  authorities  of  the  town,  and  Jacob  suffered 
considerable  persecution  in  consequence.  He  visited 
Dresden  in  1624,  and  in  the  same  year  was  there 
taken  ill  with  a  fever,  returning  to  Gorlitz,  where  he 
expired  in  a  condition  of  ecstasy. 


PLATE    ti. 


PORTRAIT   OF 
JACOB   BOEHME. 


§  57]  THE   ALCHEMISTS  76 

Jacob  Boehme  was  an  alchemist  of  a  purely  tran- 
scendental order.  He  had,  it  appears,  acquired 
some  knowledge  of  Chemistry  during  his  apprentice 
days,  and  he  employed  the  language  of  Alchemy  in 
the  elaboration  of  his  system  of  mystical  philosophy. 
With  this  lofty  mystical-religious  system  we  cannot 
here  deal  ;  Boehme  is,  indeed,  often  accounted  the 
greatest  of  true  Christian  mystics  ;  but  although  con- 
scious of  his  superiority  over  many  minor  lights,  we 
think  this  title  is  due  to  Emanuel  Swedenborg.  The 
question  of  the  validity  of  his  visions  is  also  one 
which  lies  beyond  the  scope  of  the  present  work ;  '^ 
we  must  confine  our  attention  to  Boehme  as  an 
alchemist.  The  Philosopher's  Stone,  in  Boehme's 
terminology,  is  the  Spirit  of  Christ  which  must 
**  tincture "  the  individual  soul.  In  one  place  he 
says,  *'  The  Phylosophers  Stone  is  a  very  dark  dis- 
esteemed  Stone,  of  a  Gray  colour,  but  therein  lyeth 
the  highest  Tincture."'^  In  the  transcendental  sense, 
this  is  reminiscent  of  the  words  of  Isaiah  :  **  He  hath 
no  form  nor  comeliness  ;  and  when  we  see  him,  there 
is  no  beauty  that  we  should  desire  him.  ...  He  was 
despised  and  we  esteemed  him  not,"  &c.'^ 

§  57.  John  Baptist  van  Helmont  (see  plate  12) 
was  born  in  Brussels  in  1577.  He  devoted  himself 
to  the  study  of  medicine,  at  first  following  Galen,  but 

*5  For  a  general  discussion  of  spiritual  visions  see  the  present 
writer's  Matter ^  Spirit  and  the  Cosmos  (Rider,  1910),  Chapter  IV., 
"  On  Matter  and  Spirit."  Undoubtedly  Boehme's  visions  involved 
a  valuable  element  of  truth,  but  at  the  same  time  much  that  was 
purely  relative  and  subjective. 

'^'  Jacob  Boehme  :  Epistles  (translated  by  J.  E.,  1649),  Ep.  iv. 
§  III,  p.  65. 

''  The  Book  of  the  Prophet  Isaiah^  chap,  liii.,  vv.  2  and  3,  R.V. 


76  ALCHEMY  [§  57 

afterwards  accepting  in  part  the    teachings  of  Para- 
celsus ;  and  he  helped  to  a  large  extent  in  the  over- 
throw   of  the    old    medical    doctrines.     His    purely 
chemical   researches  were  also  of  great 

J.  B.  van       value  to  the   science.     He  was    a    man 
ixelmont 
(1577-1644)      of  profound   knowledge,   of    a   religious 

and  F.  M.  van  temperament,  and  he  possessed  a  marked 
(m&^699 )  li^^"§^  for  the  mystical.  He  was  inspired 
by  the  writings  of  Thomas  a  Kempis  to 
imitate  Christ  in  all  things,  and  he  practised  medicine, 
therefore,  as  a  work  of  benevolence,  asking  no  fee  for 
his  services.  At  the  same  time,  moreover,  he  was  a 
firm  believer  in  the  powers  of  the  Philosopher's  Stone, 
claiming  to  have  himself  successfully  performed  the 
transmutation  of  the  metals  on  more  than  one  occa- 
sion, though  unacquainted  with  the  composition  of  the 
medicine  employed  (see  §  62).  Many  of  his  theoretical 
views  are  highly  fantastical.  He  lived  a  life  devoted 
to  scientific  research,  and  died  in  1644. 

Van  Helmont  regarded  water  as  the  primary 
element  out  of  which  all  things  are  produced.  He 
denied  that  fire  was  an  element  or  anything  material 
at  all,  and  he  did  not  accept  the  sulphur-mercury- 
salt  theory.  To  him  is  due  the  word  ''gas" — before 
his  time  various  gases  were  looked  upon  as  mere 
varieties  of  air — and  he  also  made  a  distinction 
between  gases  (which  could  not  be  condensed)  '^  and 
vapours  (which  give  liquids  on  cooling).  In  particular 
he  investigated  the  gas  that  is  now  known  as  carbon- 
dioxide  (carbonic  anhydride),  which  he  termed  gas 
sylvestre ;   but   he   lacked  suitable  apparatus  for  the 

'*  It  has  since  been  discovered  that  all  gases  can  be  condensed, 
given  a  sufficient  degree  of  cold  and  pressure. 


PLATE    12. 


^ucru^'Sl^ 


PORTRAITS  OF 

J.    B.    AND   F.    M.   VAN   HELMONT. 

(From  the  Frontispiece  to  J.  B.  van  Helmonfs  Oriatrikcy 


§  59]  THE   ALCHEMISTS  77 

collection  of  gases,  and  hence  was  led  in  many  cases 
to  erroneous  conclusions. 

Francis  Mercurius  van  Helmont  (see  plate  12), 
the  son  of  John  Baptist,  born  in  16 18,  gained  the  repu- 
tation of  having  also  achieved  the  magnum  opus,  since 
he  appeared  to  live  very  luxuriously  upon  a  limited 
income.  He  was  a  skilled  chemist  and  physician,  but 
held  many  queer  theories,  metempsychosis  included. 

§  58.  Johann  Rudolf  Glauber  was  born  at  Karl- 
stadt  in  1604.  Of  his  life  little  is  known.  He  appears 
to  have  travelled  about  Germany  a  good 
^^^^^T^  deal,  afterwards  visiting  Amsterdam, 
(1604-1668).  where  he  died  in  1668.  He  was  of  a 
very  patriotic  nature,  and  a  most  ardent 
investigator  in  the  realm  of  Chemistry.  He  accepted 
the  main  iatro-chemical  doctrines,  but  gave  most  of 
his  attention  to  applied  Chemistry.  He  enriched  the 
science  with  many  important  discoveries  ;  and  crystal- 
lised sodium  sulphate  is  still  called  '*  Glauber's  Salt." 
Glauber,  himself,  attributed  remarkable  medicinal 
powers  to  this  compound.  He  was  a  firm  believer  in 
the  claims  of  Alchemy,  and  held  many  fantastic  ideas. 

§  59.  Thomas  Vaughan,  who  wrote  under  the 
name  of  "Eugenius  Philalethes,"  was  born  at 
Newton  in  Brecknockshire  in  1622.  He  was  edu- 
cated at    Jesus  College,  Oxford,  gradu- 

Vaughan      ating  as  a  Bachelor  of  Arts,  and  being 

("Eugenius     made    a    fellow     of    his    college.       He 

^162^-l^^S''^    appears  also  to  have  taken  holy  orders 

and     to    have    had    the    living    of    St. 

Bridget's     (Brecknockshire)     conferred      on      him.^^ 

'^  See  Anthony  a  Wood  :  Athene^  Oxonienses^  edited  by  Philip 
Bliss,  vol.  iii.  (1817),  cols.  722-726. 


78  ALCHEMY  [§  59 

During  the  civil  wars  he  bore  arms  for  the  king, 
but  his  allegiance  to  the  Royalist  cause  led  to  his 
being  accused  of  '*  drunkenness,  swearing,  inconti- 
nency  and  bearing  arms  for  the  King " ;  and  he 
appears  to  have  been  deprived  of  his  living.  He 
retired  to  Oxford  and  gave  himself  up  to  study  and 
chemical  research.  He  is  to  be  reofarded  as  an 
alchemist  of  the  transcendental  order.  His  views  as 
to  the  nature  of  the  true  Philosopher's  Stone  may  be 
gathered  from  the  following  quotation :  "  This, 
reader,"  he  says,  speaking  of  the  mystical  illumina- 
tion, "is  the  Christian  Philosophers  Stone,  a  Stone 
so  often  inculcated  in  Scripture.  This  is  the  Rock  in 
the  wildernesse,  because  in  great  obscurity,  and  few 
there  are  that  know  the  right  way  unto  it.  This  is 
the  Stone  of  Fire  in  Ezekiel ;  this  is  the  Stone  with 
Seven  Eyes  upon  it  in  Zacharie,  and  this  is  the  White 
Stone  with  the  New  Name  in  the  Revelation.  But 
in  the  Gospel,  where  Christ  himself  speakes,  who  was 
born  to  discover  mysteries  and  communicate  Heaven 
to  Earth,  it  is  more  clearly  described.  "20  At  the  same 
time  he  appears  to  have  carried  out  experiments  in 
physical  Alchemy,  and  is  said  to  have  met  with  his 
death  in  1666  through  accidentally  inhaling  the  fumes 
of  some  mercury  with  which  he  was  experimenting. 

Thomas  Vaughan  was  an  ardent  disciple  of 
Cornelius  Agrippa,  the  sixteenth-century  theosophist. 
He  held  the  peripatetic  philosophy  in  very  slight 
esteem.  He  was  a  man  devoted  to  God,  though 
probably  guilty  of  some  youthful  follies,  full  of  love 

'"  Thomas  Vaughan  ("Eugenius  Philalethes ") :  Anima  Magica 
Abscondita  (see  The  Magical  Writings  of  Thomas  Vaughan^  edited 
by  A.  E.  Waite,  1888,  p.  71). 


§  60]  THE   ALCHEMISTS  79 

towards  his  wife,  and  with  an  intense  desire  for  the 
solution  of  the  great  problems  of  Nature.  Amongst 
his  chief  works,  which  are  by  no  means  wanting  in 
flashes  of  mystic  wisdom,  we  may  mention  Anthropo- 
sophia  Tkeomagicay  Anima  Magica  Abscondita  (which 
were  published  together),  and  Magia  Adamica ;  or^ 
the  Antiquitie  of  Magic,  With  regard  to  his  views 
as  expressed  in  the  first  two  of  these  books,  a 
controversy  ensued  between  Vaughan  and  Henry 
Moore,  which  was  marked  by  considerable  acrimony. 
§  60.  The  use  of  the  pseudonym  "  Philalethes  "  has 
not  been  confined  to  one  alchemist.  The  cosmo- 
politan adept  who  wrote  under  the  name 

"Eiren^us     ^f    « Eiren«us    Philalethes,"  has    been 
Philalethes"  r       j  ^i.  i.      j       -^u  t-i. 

(1623?-?)      confused,  on  the  one  hand,  with  ihomas 

and  George  Vaughan,  on  the  other  hand  with  George 
Starkey  Starkey  (?-i665).  His  real  identity  re- 
^  ''  mains  shrouded  in  impenetrable  mys- 
tery. George  Starkey,  who  graduated  M.A.  at 
Harvard  in  1646,  probably  made  the  acquaintance 
of  the  mysterious  adept  whilst  practising  medicine  in 
the  United  States  of  America,  and  was  to  some  extent 
initiated  by  him  into  the  secrets  of  Alchemy.  In  re- 
turn for  this  he  appears  to  have  stolen  his  Hermetic 
master's  MS.,  The  Marrow  of  Alchemy,  which  he 
published  in  1654-5.  Returning  to  England,  Starkey 
seems  to  have  degenerated  into  a  quack. 21  The  works 
of  "  Eiraenius  Philalethes,"  which  are  among  the  most 
lucid  of  alchemistic  writings,  became  immensely  popu- 
lar. His  Open  Entrance  to  the  Closed  Palace  of  the 
King  (the  most  famous  of  his  works)  and  his  Three 

"  See  Mr.  A.  E.   Waite's   Lives  of  Alchemy stical  Philosophers^ 
article,  "Eirenseus  Philalethes." 


80  ALCHEMY  [§  60 

Treatises  will  be  found  in  The  Hermetic  Museum. 
Some  of  his  views  we  have  already  noted  (see 
§§  I  and  22).  On  certain  points  he  differed  from 
the  majority  of  the  alchemists.  He  denied  that  fire 
was  an  element,  and,  also,  that  bodies  are  formed  by 
mixture  of  the  elements.  According  to  him  there  is 
one  principle  in  the  metals,  namely,  mercury,  which 
arises  from  the  aqueous  element,  and  is  termed 
"  metalically  differentiated  water,  i.e.,  it  is  water 
passed  into  that  stage  of  development,  in  which  it  can 
no  longer  produce  anything  but  mineral  substances. "22 
Philalethes's  views  as  to  ** metallic  seed"  are  also  of 
considerable  interest.  Of  the  seed  of  gold,  which  he 
regarded  as  the  seed,  also,  of  all  other  metals,  he  says : 
•*  The  seed  of  animals  and  vegetables  is  something 
separate,  and  may  be  cut  out,  or  otherwise  separately 
exhibited ;  but  metallic  seed  is  diffused  throughout 
the  metal,  and  contained  in  all  its  smallest  parts  ; 
neither  can  it  be  discerned  from  its  body :  its  ex- 
traction is  therefore  a  task  which  may  well  tax  the 
ingenuity  of  the  most  experienced  philosopher.  .  .  ."23 
There  appears  to  be  somewhat  of  a  similarity  between 
this  view  of  the  seed  of  metals  and  modern  ideas 
regarding  the  electron  (see  §§80  and  81),  which  must 
not  be  passed  over  without  notice. 

"  "  EiRENvEUS  Philalethes  "  :  The  Metamorphosis  of  Metals 
(see  The  Hermetic  Museum,  vol.  ii.  p.  236).  Compare  with  van 
Helmont's  views,  §  57. 

^3  "  EiRENyEUS  Philalethes  "  :  The  Metamorphosis  of  Metals 
(see  The  Hermetic  Museum,  vol.  ii.  p.  240). 


CHAPTER  V  X 

THE   OUTCOME   OF  ALCHEMY 

§  61.  The  alchemists  were  untiring  in  their  search         X 

for  the  Stone  of  the  Philosophers,  and  we  may  well 

ask   whether    they    ever    succeeded    in 

Alchemists     effecting   a   real    transmutation.       That 

achieve  the     many  apparent  transmutations  occurred, 

"Magnum      ^^  observers  beinsf  either  self-deceived 
Opus"?        ,  r   .  1  .       . 

by    a     superficial     exammation — certam 

alloys  resemble  the  "  noble  metals "  —  or  de- 
liberately cheated  by  impostors,  is  of  course  un- 
doubted. But  at  the  same  time  we  must  not 
assume  that,  because  we  know  not  the  method  now, 
real  transmutations  have  never  taken  place.  Modern 
research  indicates  that  it  may  be  possible  to  transmute 
other  metals  (more  especially  silver)  into  gold,  and 
consequently  we  must  admit  the  possibility  that 
amongst  the  many  experiments  carried  out,  a  real 
transmutation  was  effected.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
method  which  is  suggested  by  the  recent  researches 
in  question  could  not  possibly  have  been  known  to 
the  alchemists  or  accidentally  employed  by  them  ;  and, 
moreover,  the  quantity  of  gold  which  is  hoped  for, 
should  such  a  method  prove  successful,  is  far  below 
the  smallest  amount  that  would  have  been  detected  in 

7  81 


82  ALCHEMY  [§  62 

the  days  of  Alchemy.     But  if  there  be  one  method 

whereby  the  metals  may  be  fctnsmuted,  there  may  be 

other  methods.     And  it  is  not  altogether  an  easy  task 

to  explain  away  the  testimony  of  eminent  men  such 

as  were  van  Helmont  and  Helvetius. 

§  62.  John  Baptist  van  Helmont  (see  §  57),  who 

was  celebrated  alike  for  his  skill  as  a  physician  and 

chemist  and  for  his  nobility  of  character, 

Thr  Testi-      testified  in  more  than  one  place  that  he 
luony  of  van    1,1.         ,  r  •    i  ^ 

Helmont.       ^^^  nimselt  carried  out  the  transmutation 

of  mercury  into  gold.  But,  as  we  have 
mentioned  above,  the  composition  of  the  Stone  em- 
ployed on  these  occasions  was  unknown  to  him.  He 
says  :  "  ...  For  truly,  I  have  divers  times  seen  it 
[the  Stone  of  the  Philosophers],  and  handled  it  with 
my  hands  :  but  it  was  of  colour,  such  as  is  in  Saffron 
in  its  Powder,  yet  weighty,  and  shining  like  unto 
powdered  Glass  :  There  was  once  given  unto  me 
one  fourth  part  of  one  Grain  :  But  I  call  a  Grain  the 
six  hundredth  part  of  one  Ounce  :  This  quarter  of 
one  Grain  therefore,  being  rouled  up  in  Paper,  I  pro- 
jected upon  eight  Ounces  of  Quick-silver  made  hot  in 
a  Crucible  ;  and  straightway  all  the  Quick-silver,  with 
a  certain  degree  of  Noise,  stood  still  from  flowing,  and 
being  congealed,  setled  like  unto  a  yellow  Lump  :  but 
after  pouring  it  out,  the  Bellows  blowing,  there  were 
found  eight  Ounces,  and  a  little  less  than  eleven  Grains 
[eight  Ounces  less  eleven  Grains]  of  the  purest  Gold  : 
Therefore  one  only  Grain  of  that  Powder,  had  trans- 
changed  19186  [19 1 56]  Parts  of  Quick-silver,  equal 
to  itself,  into  the  best  Gold.''^ 

'  J.  B.  VAN  Helmont  :  Zt/a  Eternal  (see  Oriatrike,  translated  by 
J.  C,  1662;  or  Van  Hdmonfs   WorkeSy  translated  by  J.  C,  1664, 


§  63]    THE   OUTCOME   OF  ALCHEMY      83 

And  again  :  *'  I  am  constrained  to  believe  that  there 
is  the  Stone  which  makes  Gold,  and  which  makes 
Silver  ;  because  I  have  at  distinct  turns,  made  pro- 
jection with  my  hand,  of  one  grain  of  the  Powder, 
upon  some  thousand  grains  of  hot  Quick-silver ;  and 
the  buisiness  succeeded  in  the  Fire,  even  as  Books 
do  promise ;  a  Circle  of  many  People  standing  by, 
together  with  a  tickling  Admiration  of  us  all.  .  .  . 
He  who  first  gave  me  the  Gold-making  Powder,  had 
likewise  also,  at  least  as  much  of  it,  as  might  be 
sufficient  for  changing  two  hundred  thousand  Pounds 
of  Gold :  ,  .  .  For  he  gave  me  perhaps  half  a  grain 
of  that  Powder,  and  nine  ounces  and  three  quarters  of 
Quick-silver  were  thereby  transchanged :  But  that 
Gold,  a  strange  man  [a  stranger],  being  a  Friend 
of  one  evenings  acquaintance,   gave  me."^ 

§  63.  John  Frederick  Helvetius  (see  plate  13),  an 

eminent   doctor   of    medicine,  and   physician   to   the 

Prince  of  Orange,  published  at  the  Hague 

The  Testi-      jj^  j^^^  ^^^^  following  remarkable  account 

Helvetius.  ^^  ^  transmutation  he  claimed  to  have 
effected.  Certain  points  of  resemblance 
between  this  account  and  that  of  van  Helmont 
{e.^.,  in  each  case  the  Stone  is  described  as  a 
glassy  substance  of  a  pale  yellow  colour)  are 
worth  noticing:  **  On  the  27  December,  1666,  in 
the  forenoon,  there  came  to  my  house  a  certain 
man,  who  was  a  complete  stranger  to  me,  but  of 
an  honest,  grave   countenance,  and  an  authoritative 

which  is  merely  the  former  work  with  a  new  title-page  and  pre- 
liminary matter,  pp.  751  and  752). 

=  J.   B.   VAN   Helmont  :    I/ie   Tree  of  Life  (see   Oriatrike  or 
Van  Helmonfs   Workes^  p.  807). 


84  ALCHEMY  [§  63 

mien,  clothed  In  a  simple  garb  like  that  of  a  Mem- 
nonlte  .   .  . 

''After  we  had  exchanged  salutations,  he  asked  me 
whether  he  might  have  some  conversation  with  me. 
He  wished  to  say  something  to  me  about  the  Pyro- 
technic Art,  as  he  had  read  one  of  my  tracts  (directed 
against  the  sympathetic  Powder  of  Dr.  DIgby),  in 
which  I  hinted  a  suspicion  whether  the  Grand  Arcanum 
of  the  Sages  was  not  after  all  a  gigantic  hoax.  He^ 
therefore,  took  that  opportunity  of  asking  me  whether 
I  could  not  believe  that  such  a  grand  mystery  might 
exist  in  the  nature  of  things,  by  means  of  which  a 
physician  could  restore  any  patient  whose  vitals  were 
not  Irreparably  destroyed.  I  answered  :  '  Such  a 
Medicine  would  be  a  most  desirable  acquisition  for 
any  physician  ;  nor  can  any  man  tell  how  many  secrets 
there  may  be  hidden  in  Nature  ;  yet,  though  I  have 
read  much  about  the  truth  of  this  Art,  It  has  never 
been  my  good  fortune  to  meet  with  a  real  Master  of 
the  Alchemical  Science.'  I  also  enquired  whether  he 
was  a  medical  man.  ...  In  reply,  he  .  .  .  described 
himself  as  a  brassfounder.  .  .  .  After  some  further 
conversation,  the  Artist  Ellas  (for  it  was  he)  thus 
addressed  me  :  '  Since  you  have  read  so  much  in  the 
works  of  the  Alchemists  about  this  Stone,  Its  sub- 
stance. Its  colour,  and  Its  wonderful  effects,  may  I  be 
allowed  the  question,  whether  you  have  not  yourself 
prepared  it  ? '  Gn  my  answering  his  question  in  the 
negative,  he  took  out  of  his  bag  a  cunningly-worked 
ivory  box,  in  which  there  were  three  large  pieces  of 
a  substance  resembling  glass,  or  pale  sulphur,  and 
informed  me  that  here  was  enough  of  the  Tincture 
for   the  production  of    20   tons    of  gold.      When    I 


PLATE   13. 


lOHANNES   FRIDERICTJ5  HeEVETIUS. 

Anhaltinv^  Cothonensk Doctor^' 

Pra^cticus  M^edLUn^ Haqa,  Comttis  .  &i  lo.A'.fSd. 


§  64]    THE   OUTCOME   OF  ALCHEMY     85 

had   held    the   precious   treasure    in   my  hand   for  a 

quarter  of  an  hour  (during  which  time  I  Hstened  to 

a  recital  of  its  wonderful  curative  properties),   I  was 

compelled  to  restore  it  to  its  owner,  which  I  could  not 

help  doing  with  a  certain  degree  of  reluctance.     After 

thanking  him  for  his  kindness  in  shewing  it  to  me, 

I  then  asked  how  it  was  that  his  Stone  did  not  display 

that  ruby  colour,  which  I  had  been  taught  to  regard 

as    characteristic   of  the    Philosopher's    Stone.       He 

replied  that  the  colour  made  no  difference,  and  that 

the  substance  was  sufficiently  mature  for  all  practical 

purposes.     My  request  that  he  would  give  me  a  piece 

of  his  Stone  (though  it  were  no  larger  than  a  coriander 

seed),  he  somewhat  brusquely  refused,  adding,  in   a 

milder  tone,  that  he   could    not   give    it   me   for   all 

the  wealth   I    possessed,  and  that  not  on  account  of 

its  great  preciousness,  but  for  some  other  reason  which 

it  was  not  lawful  for  him  to  divulge ;  .  .  . 

§  65.  '*  When  my  strange  visitor  had  concluded  his 

narrative,  I  besought  him  to  give  me  a  proof  of  his 

_  ,   ^.  assertion,  by  performing^  the  transmuta- 

Helvetms  .     ^  ^  ,      . 

obtains  the     tory    operation    on    some    metals    m   my 

Philosopher's  presence.  He  answered  evasively,  that 
Stone.  j^^  could  not  do  so  then,  but  that  he 
would  return  in  three  weeks,  and  that,  if  he  was 
then  at  liberty  to  do  so,  he  would  shew  me  some- 
thing that  would  make  me  open  my  eyes.  He 
appeared  punctually  to  the  promised  day,  and  invited 
me  to  take  a  walk  with  him,  in  the  course  of  which  we 
discoursed  profoundly  on  the  secrets  of  Nature  in  fire, 
though  I  noticed  that  my  companion  was  very  chary 
in  imparting  information  about  the  Grand  Arcanum. 
.  -  .  At  last  I  asked  him  point-blank   to   show   me 


86  ALCHEMY  [§  64 

the  transmutation  of  metals.  I  besought  him  to  come 
and  dine  with  me,  and  to  spend  the  night  at  my  house  ; 
I  entreated  ;  I  expostulated  ;  but  in  vain.  He  remained 
firm.  I  reminded  him  of  his  promise.  He  retorted 
that  his  promise  had  been  conditional  upon  his  being 
permitted  to  reveal  the  secret  to  me.  At  last,  how- 
ever, I  prevailed  upon  him  to  give  me  a  piece  of  his 
precious  Stone — a  piece  no  larger  than  a  grain  of 
rape  seed.  He  delivered  it  to  me  as  if  it  were  the 
most  princely  donation  in  the  world.  Upon  my  utter- 
ing a  doubt  whether  it  would  be  sufficient  to  tinge 
more  than  four  grains  of  lead,  he  eagerly  demanded 
it  back.  I  complied,  in  the  hope  that  he  would  ex- 
change it  for  a  larger  piece  ;  instead  of  which  he 
divided  it  in  two  with  his  thumb,  threw  away  one-half 
and  gave  me  back  the  other,  saying :  '  Even  now  it 
is  sufficient  for  you.'  Then  I  was  still  more  heavily 
disappointed,  as  I  could  not  believe  that  anything 
could  be  done  with  so  small  a  particle  of  the  Medicine. 
He,  however,  bade  me  take  two  drachms,  or  half  an 
ounce  of  lead,  or  even  a  little  more,  and  to  melt  it 
in  the  crucible  ;  for  the  Medicine  would  certainly  not 
tinge  more  of  the  base  metal  than  it  was  sufficient  for. 
I  answered  that  I  could  not  believe  that  so  small  a 
quantity  of  Tincture  could  transform  so  large  a  mass 
of  lead.  But  I  had  to  be  satisfied  with  what  he  had 
given  me,  and  my  chief  difficulty  was  about  the  appli- 
cation of  the  Tincture.  I  confessed  that  when  I  held 
his  ivory  box  in  my  hand,  I  had  managed  to  extract 
a  few  crumbs  of  his  Stone,  but  that  they  had  changed 
my  lead,  not  into  gold,  but  only  into  glass.  He 
laughed,  and  said  that  I  was  more  expert  at  theft 
than  at  the  application  of  the  Tincture.     *  You  should 


§  65]    THE   OUTCOME   OF   ALCHEMY      87 

have  protected  your  spoil  with  "  yellow  wax,"  then  it 

would   have  been  able  to  penetrate  the  lead  and  to 

transmute  it  into  ^old.'  .  .  . 

§  65.  "...  With  ...  a  promise  to  return  at  nine 

o'clock   the    next  morning,  he  left  me.     But  at  the 

„  ,    ^.  stated  hour  on  the  followingf  day  he  did 

Helvetms  ,       i  .  .      i  . 

performs  a     ^^^  make  his  appearance ;  m  his  stead, 

Transmuta-     however,  there  came,  a  few  hours  later, 

*^°°*  a  stranger,  who  told  me  that  his  friend 

the    Artist   was   unavoidably   detained,    but   that   he 

would  call  at  three  o'clock  in  the  afternoon.      The 

afternoon  came ;  I  waited  for  him  till  half-past  seven 

o'clock.     He   did   not   appear.     Thereupon   my  wife 

came  and  tempted  me  to  try  the  transmutation  myself. 

I  determined,  however,  to  wait  till  the  morrow,  and 

in  the  meantime,  ordered  my  son  to  light  the  fire,  as  I 

was  now  almost  sure  that  he  was  an  impostor.     On 

the  morrow,  however,  I  thought  that  I  might  at  least 

make   an   experiment  with    the   piece  of   '  Tincture ' 

which   I  had  received  ;  if  it  turned  out  a  failure,  in 

spite  of  my  following  his  directions  closely,  I  might 

then  be  quite  certain  that  my  visitor  had  been  a  mere 

pretender  to  a  knowledge  of  this  Art.     So  I  asked  my 

wife  to  put  the  Tincture  in  wax,  and  I  myself,  in  the 

meantime,  prepared  six  drachms  of  lead  ;  I  then  cast 

the  Tincture,  enveloped  as  it  was  in  wax,  on  the  lead  ; 

as  soon  as  it  was  melted,  there  was  a  hissing  sound 

and  a  slight  effervescence,  and  after  a  quarter  of  an 

hour  I  found  that  the  whole  mass  of  lead  had  been 

turned  into  the  finest  gold.     Before  this  transmutation 

took  place,  the  compound  became  intensely  green,  but 

as  soon  as  I  had  poured  it  into  the  melting  pot  it 

assumed  a  hue  like  blood.     When  it  cooled,  it  glittered 


88  ALCHEMY  [§  67 

and  shone  like  gold.  We  immediately  took  it  to  the 
goldsmith,  who  at  once  declared  it  to  be  the  finest 
gold  he  had  ever  seen,  and  offered  to  pay  fifty  florins 
an  ounce  for  it. 

§  66.  *'  The  rumour,  of  course,  spread  at  once  like 

wildfire  through  the  whole  city  ;  and  in  the  afternoon, 

I  had  visits  from  many  illustrious  students 

Gold  Assayed.  ^^  ^^^^  ^^^ '  ^  ^^^^  received  a  call  from 
the  Master  of  the  Mint  and  some  other 
gentlemen,  who  requested  me  to  place  at  their  disposal 
a  small  piece  of  the  gold,  in  order  that  they  might 
subject  it  to  the  usual  tests.  I  consented,  and  we 
betook  ourselves  to  the  house  of  a  certain  silversmith, 
named  Brechtil,  who  submitted  a  small  piece  of  my 
gold  to  the  test  called  '  the  fourth  ' :  three  or  four  parts 
of  silver  are  melted  in  the  crucible  with  one  part  of 
gold,  and  then  beaten  out  into  thin  plates,  upon  which 
some  strong  aqua  fortis  [nitric  acid]  is  poured.  The 
usual  result  of  this  experiment  is  that  the  silver  is 
dissolved,  while  the  gold  sinks  to  the  bottom  in  the 
shape  of  a  black  powder,  and  after  the  aqua  fortis  has 
been  poured  off,  [the  gold,]  melted  once  again  in  the 
crucible,  resumes  its  former  shape.  .  .  .  When  we 
now  performed  this  experiment,  we  thought  at  first 
that  one-half  of  the  gold  had  evaporated  ;  but  after- 
wards we  found  that  this  was  not  the  case,  but  that, 
on  the  contrary,  two  scruples  of  the  silver  had  under- 
gone a  change  into  gold. 

§  67.  "  Then  we  tried  another  test,  viz.,  that  which 
is  performed  by  means  of  a  septuple  of  Antimony ;  at 
first  it  seemed  as  if  eight  grains  of  the  gold  had  been 
lost,  but  afterwards,  not  only  had  two  scruples  of  the 
gjlyer  been  converted  into  gold,  but  the  silver  itself 


§  68]    THE   OUTCOME   OF  ALCHEMY      89 

was  greatly  improved  both  in  quality  and  malleability. 

Thrice   I    performed   this   infallible   test,  discovering 

that   every    drachm    of    gold    produced 

■^fi^®*^^^'^     an  increase  of  a  scruple  of  sfold,  but  the 
Gold  Further      .  .  r  &       » 

Tested.  silver  is  excellent  and  extremely  flex- 
ible. Thus  I  have  unfolded  to  you  the 
whole  story  from  beginning  to  end.  The  gold  I  still 
retain  in  my  possession,  but  I  cannot  tell  you  what 
has  become  of  the  Artist  Elias.  Before  he  left  me, 
on  the  last  day  of  our  friendly  intercourse,  he  told  me 
that  he  was  on  the  point  of  undertaking  a  journey  to 
the  Holy  Land.  May  the  Holy  Angels  of  God  watch 
over  him  wherever  he  is,  and  long  preserve  him  as  a 
source  of  blessing  to  Christendom  !  This  is  my  earnest 
prayer  on  his  and  our  behalf."  3 

Testimony  such  as  this  warns  us  not  to  be  too  sure 
that  a  real  transmutation  has  never  taken  place.  On 
the  whole,  with  regard  to  this  question,  an  agnostic 
position  appears  to  be  the  more  philosophical. 

§  68.  But  even  if  the  alchemists  did  not  discover 

the  Grand  Arcanum  of  Nature,  they  did  discover  very 

many  scientifically  important  facts.    Even 

of  Chemistry  ^^  ^^^^  ^^^  ^^^  prepare  the  Philosopher's 
Stone,  they  did  prepare  a  very  large 
number  of  new  and  important  chemical  compounds. 
Their  labours  were  the  seeds  out  of  which  modern 
Chemistry  developed,  and  this  highly  important  science 
is  rightfully  included  under  the  expression  ''The  Out- 
come of  Alchemy."  As  we  have  already  pointed  out 
{§  48),  it  was  the  iatro-chemists  who  first  investigated 
chemical  matters  with  an  object  other  than  alchemistic, 

3  J.  F.  Helvetius  :  The  Golden  Calf^  ch.  iii.  (see  The  Hermetic 
Museum^  vol.  ii.  pp.  283  et.  seq,). 


90  ALCHEMY  [§  69 

their  especial  end  in  view  being  the  preparation  of 
useful  medicines,  though  the  medical-chemist  and  the 
alchemist  were  very  often  united  in  the  one  person,  as 
in  the  case  of  Paracelsus  himself  and  the  not  less 
famous  van  Helmont.  It  was  not  until  still  later  that 
Chemistry  was  recognised  as  a  distinct  science  separate 
from  medicine. 

§  69.  In  another  direction  the  Outcome  of  Alchemy 
was  of  a  very  distressing  nature.     Alchemy  was  in 
many  respects   eminently  suitable   as   a 
^®  cloak  for  fraud,  and  those  who  became 

of  Alchemy.  **  alchemists "  with  the  sole  object  of 
accumulating  much  wealth  in  a  short 
space  of  time,  finding  that  the  legitimate  pursuit  of 
the  Art  did  not  enable  them  to  realise  their  expecta- 
tions in  this  direction,  availed  themselves  of  this  fact. 
There  is,  indeed,  some  evidence  that  the  degeneracy 
of  Alchemy  had  commenced  as  early  as  the  fourteenth 
century,  but  the  attainment  of  the  magnum  opus  was 
regarded  as  possible  for  some  three  or  more  centuries. 
The  alchemistic  promises  of  health,  wealth  and 
happiness  and  a  pseudo-mystical  style  of  language 
were  effectively  employed  by  these  impostors.  Some 
more  or  less  ingenious  tricks — such  as  the  use  of  hollow 
stirring-rods,  in  which  the  gold  was  concealed,  &c. — 
convinced  a  credulous  public  of  the  validity  of  their 
claims.  Of  these  pseudo-alchemists  we  have  already 
mentioned  Edward  Kelley  and  George  Starkey,  but 
chief  of  them  all  is  generally  accounted  the  notorious 
"Count  Cagliostro."  That  Cagliostro  is  rightfully 
placed  in  the  category  of  pseudo-alchemfsts  is  certain, 
but  it  also  appears  equally  certain  that,  charlatan 
though  he  was,  posterity  has  not  always  done  him 


§  70]    THE   OUTCOME   OF  ALCHEMY      91 

that  justice  which  is  due  to  all  men,  however  bad 
they  may  be. 

§  70.  Of  the  birth  and  early  life  of  the  personage 

calling  himself  "  Count  Cagliostro  "  nothing  is  known 

with   any  degree  of  certainty,  even  his 

"Count        ^j.^g  name  being:  enveloped  in  mystery. 

Cagliostro"      ^      i.  -    j      j     u  i    .      -j      .-r 

/ ^ jyggv      It   has,    mdeed,    been   usual  to   identity 

him  with  the  notorious  Italian  swindler, 
Giuseppe  Balsamo,  who,  born  at  Palermo  in  1743  (or 
1748),  apparently  disappeared  from  mortal  ken  after 
some  thirty  years,  of  which  the  majority  were  spent 
in  committing  various  crimes.  **  Cagliostro's  "  latest 
biographer,4  who  appears  to  have  gone  into  the  matter 
very  thoroughly,  however,  throws  very  grave  doubts 
on  the  truth  of  this  theory. 

If  the  earlier  part  of  **  Cagliostro's  "  life  is  unknown, 
the  latter  part  is  so  overlaid  with  legends  and  lies,  that 
it  is  almost  impossible  to  get  at  the  truth  concerning 
it.  In  1776  Cagliostro  and  his  wife  were  in  London, 
where  *' Cagliostro"  became  a  Freemason,  joining  a 
lodge  connected  with  **  The  Order  of  Strict  Obser- 
vance," a  secret  society  incorporated  with  Freemasonry, 

^  W.  R.  H.  Trowbridge  :  Cagliostro :  The  Splendour  and  Misery 
of  a  Master  of  Magic  ( 1 9 1  o).  We  must  acknowledge  our  indebtedness 
for  many  of  the  particulars  which  follow  to  this  work .  It  is,  however, 
unfortunately  marred  by  a  ridiculous  attempt  to  show  a  likeness 
between  "  Cagliostro  "  and  Swedenborg,  for  which,  by  the  way,  Mr. 
Trowbridge  has  already  been  criticised  by  the  Spectator,  It  may 
justly  be  said  of  Swedenborg  that  he  was  scrupulously  honest  and 
sincere  in  his  beliefs  as  well  as  in  his  actions ;  and,  as  a  philosopher, 
it  is  only  now  being  discovered  how  really  great  he  was.  He  did,  in- 
deed, claim  to  have  converse  with  spiritual  beings ;  but  the  results  of 
modern  psychical  research  have  robbed  such  claims  of  any  inherent 
impossibility,  and  in  Swedenborg's  case  there  is  very  considerable 
evidence  in  the  validity  of  his  claims. 


92  ALCHEMY  [§  70 

and  which  (on  the  Continent,  at  least)  was  concerned 
largely  with  occult  subjects.  "  Cagliostro,"  however, 
was  unsatisfied  with  its  rituals  and  devised  a  new 
system  which  he  called  Egyptian  Masonry.  Egyptian 
Masonry,  he  taught,  was  to  reform  the  whole  world, 
and  he  set  out,  leaving  England  for  the  Continent,  to 
convert  Masons  and  others  to  his  views.  We  must 
look  for  the  motive  power  of  his  extraordinary  career  in 
vanity  and  a  love  of  mystery-mongering,  without  any 
true  knowledge  of  the  occult ;  it  is  probable,  indeed, 
that  ultimately  his  unbounded  vanity  triumphed  over 
his  reason  and  that  he  actually  believed  in  his  own 
pretensions.  That  he  did  possess  hypnotic  and  clair- 
voyant powers  is,  we  think,  at  least  probable ;  but 
it  is  none  the  less  certain  that,  when  such  failed 
him,  he  had  no  scruples  against  employing  other 
means  of  convincing  the  credulous  of  the  validity 
of  his  claims.  This  was  the  case  on  his  visit  to 
Russia,  which  occurred  not  long  afterwards.  At  St. 
Petersburg  a  youthful  medium  he  was  employing,  to 
put  the  matter  briefly,  **gave  the  show  away,"  and  at 
Warsaw,  where  he  found  it  necessary  to  turn  alchemist, 
he  was  detected  in  the  process  of  introducing  a  piece 
of  gold  in  the  crucible  containing  the  base  metal  he 
was  about  to  *'  transmute."  At  Strasburg,  which  he 
reached  in  1780,  however,  he  was  more  successful. 
Here  he  appeared  as  a  miraculous  healer  of  all  diseases, 
though  whether  his  cures  are  to  be  ascribed  to  some 
simple  but  efficacious  medicine  which  he  had  dis- 
covered, to  hypnotism,  to  the  power  of  the  imagina- 
tion on  the  part  of  his  patients,  or  to  the  power  of 
imagination  on  the  part  of  those  who  have  recorded 
the  alleged  cures,  is  a  question  into  which  we  do  not 


PLATE   14. 


COMTE  defCAGlTlOSTRO. 


'^ace  page  92J 


§  70]     THE   OUTCOME   OF  ALCHEMY      93 

propose  to  enter.     At  S trasburg  "  Cagllostro "  came  into 
contact  with  the  Cardinal  de  Rohan,  and  a  fast  friend- 
ship sprang  up  between  the  two,  which,  in  the  end, 
proved  * '  CagHostro 's  "  ruin.     The  * '  Count "  next  visited 
Bordeaux  and  Lyons,  successfully  founding  lodges  of 
Egyptian   Masonry.      From  the  latter  town  he  pro- 
ceeded to  Paris,  where  he  reached  the  height  of  his 
fame.     He  became  extraordinarily  rich,  although  he 
is  said  to  have  asked,  and  to  have  accepted,  no  fee  for 
his  services  as  a  healer.     On  the  other  hand,  there  was 
a  substantial  entrance-fee  to  the  mysteries  of  Egyptian 
Masonry,  which,  with  its  alchemistic  promises  of  health 
and  wealth,  prospered  exceedingly.     At  the  summit 
of  his  career,  however,   fortune  forsook  him.     As   a 
friend  of  de  Rohan,  he  was  arrested  in  connection  with 
the  Diamond  Necklace  affair,  on  the  word  of  the  in- 
famous Countess  de  Lamotte ;  although,  of  whatever 
else  he  may  have  been  guilty,  he  was  perfectly  innocent 
of  this  charge.     After  lying  imprisoned  in  the  Bastille 
for  several  months,  he  was  tried  by  the  French  Par- 
liament,  pronounced  innocent,  and  released.     Imme- 
diately, however,  the  king  banished  him,  and  he  left 
Paris  for  London,  where  he  seems  to  have  been  per- 
sistently persecuted  by  agents  of  the   French  king. 
He   returned   to   the   Continent,   ultimately  reaching 
Italy,  where  he  was  arrested  by  the  Inquisition  and 
condemned  to  death  on  the  charge  of  being  a  Free- 
mason (a  dire  offence  in  the  eyes  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church).     The  sentence,  however,  was  modified  to  one 
of  perpetual  imprisonment,  and  he  was  confined  in  the 
Castle  of  San  Leo,  where  he  died  in  1795,  after  four 
years  of  imprisonment,  in  what  manner  is  not  known. 


CHAPTER  VI 

THE  AGE  OF  MODERN  CHEMISTRY 

§  71.  Chemistry   as    distinct    from    Alchemy    and 

latro-chemistry  commenced  with  Robert   Boyle  (see 

plate    15),    who   first   clearly   recognised 

The  Birth  of    ^\^g^^  j^-g  ^jj^  jg  neither  the  transmutation  of 

Modem  ,  ,  ,  .  -         ,. 

Chemistry.  ^^^  metals  nor  the  preparation  01  medi- 
cines, but  the  observation  and  generalisa- 
tion of  a  certain  class  of  phenomena  ;  who  denied  the 
validity  of  the  alchemistic  view  of  the  constitution  of 
matter,  and  enunciated  the  definition  of  an  element 
which  has  since  reigned  supreme  in  Chemistry ;  and 
who  enriched  the  science  with  observations  of  the 
utmost  importance.  Boyle,  however,  was  a  man 
whose  ideas  were  in  advance  of  his  times,  and  inter- 
vening between  the  iatro-chemical  period  and  the  Age 
of  Modern  Chemistry  proper  came  the  period  of  the 
Phlogistic  Theory — a  theory  which  had  a  certain 
affinity  with  the  ideas  of  the  alchemists. 

§  72.  The  phlogiston  theory  was  mainly  due  to 
Georg  Ernst  Stahl  (i 660-1 734).  Becher  (1635- 
1682)  had  attempted  to  revive  the  once  universally 
accepted  sulphur- mercury-salt  theory  of  the  alchem- 
ists in  a  somewhat  modified  form,  by  the  assump- 
tion that  all  substances  consist  of  three  earths — the 


PLATK  15. 


•^y ^f.A'ij^ArnZeruH'nl  . 


PORTRAIT   OF    ROBEKT    BOYLE. 


pa^c  94] 


§  72]    AGE   OF   MODERN   CHEMISTRY    95 

combustible,  mercurial,  and  vitreous  ;  and  herein  is  to 
be    found    the    germ    of    Stahl's    phlogistic    theory. 
According  to  Stahl,  all  combustible  bodies 
T^®  (including  those  metals    that  change  on 

Theory!^  heating)  contain  phlogiston,  the  principle 
of  combustion,  which  escapes  in  the  form  of 
flame  when  such  substances  are  burned.  According  to 
this  theory,  therefore,  the  metals  are  compounds,  since 
they  consist  of  a  metallic  calx  (what  we  now  call  the 
** oxide"  of  the  metal)  combined  with  phlogiston; 
and,  further,  to  obtain  the  metal  from  the  calx  it  is 
only  necessary  to  act  upon  it  with  some  substance 
rich  in  phlogiston.  Now,  coal  and  charcoal  are  both 
almost  completely  combustible,  leaving  very  little 
residue ;  hence,  according  to  this  theory,  they  must 
consist  very  largely  of  phlogiston  ;  and,  as  a  matter  of 
fact,  metals  can  be  obtained  by  heating  their  calces 
with  either  of  these  substances.  Many  other  facts  of 
a  like  nature  were  explicable  in  terms  of  the  phlogiston 
theory,  and  it  became  exceedingly  popular.  Chemists 
at  this  time  did  not  pay  much  attention  to  the  balance  ; 
it  was  observed,  however,  that  metals  increased  in 
weight  on  calcination,  but  this  was  *'  explained  "  on  the 
assumption  that  phlogiston  possessed  negative  weight. 
Antoine  Lavoisier  (i  743-1 794),  utilising  Priestley's 
discovery  of  oxygen  (called  **  dephlogisticated  air  "  by 
its  discoverer)  and  studying  the  weight  relations 
accompanying  combustion,  demonstrated  the  non- 
validity  of  the  phlogistic  theory^  and  proved  com- 
bustion to  be  the  combination  of  the  substance  burnt 

*  It  should  be  noted,  however,  that  if  by  the  term  "  phlogiston  " 
we  were  to  understand  energy  and  not  some  form  of  matter,  most  of 
the  statements  of  the  phlogistics  would  be  true  so  far  as  they  go. 


96  ALCHEMY  [§  73 

with  a  certain  constituent  of  the  air,  the  oxygen.  By 
this  time  Alchemy  was  to  all  intents  and  purposes 
defunct,  Boerhave  (i 668-1 738)  was  the  last  eminent 
chemist  to  give  any  support  to  its  doctrines,  and  the 
new  chemistry  of  Lavoisier  gave  it  a  final  death-blow. 
We  now  enter  upon  the  Age  of  Modern  Chemistry, 
but  we  shall  deal  in  this  chapter  with  the  history 
of  chemical  theory  only  so  far  as  is  necessary  in 
pursuance  of  our  primary  object,  and  hence  our 
account  will  be  very  far  from  complete. 

§  73.  Robert    Boyle   (i 626-1 691)   had  defined   an 
element  as  a  substance  which  could  not  be  decom- 
posed, but  which  could  enter  into  combi- 

Boyle  and  the  nation  with  other  elements  2:ivinpf  com- 

Definition  ,  ,  ,  ^      ,  ^    .  .         . 

of  an  Element,  po^^^ds   capable    01    decomposition    into 

these    original    elements.       Hence,    the 

metals  were  classed  among  the  elements,  since  they 

had  defied  all  attempts  to  decompose  them.     Now,   it 

must  be  noted  that  this  definition   is  of  a  negative 

character,    and,    although    it   is   convenient    to    term 

** elements"  all  substances  which  have  so  far  defied 

decomposition,  it  is  a  matter  of  impossibility  to  decide 

what   substances    are    true    elements    with   absolute 

certainty ;    and   the   possibility,    however   faint,    that 

gold  and  other  metals  are  of  a  compound  nature,  and 

hence    the    possibility   of  preparing    gold   from   the 

*'  base "    metals   or    other    substances,    must    always 

remain.       This    uncertainty   regarding   the   elements 

appears  to  have  generally  been   recognised   by  the 

new  school  of  chemists,  but  this  having  been  so,  it  is 

the  more  surprising  that  their  criticism  of  alchemistic 

art  was  not  less  severe. 

74.  With   the   study   of  the  relative  weights   in 


§  75]     AGE   OF   MODERN   CHEMISTRY    97 

which  substances  combine,  certain  generalisations  or 
**  natural    laws"   of    supreme    importance   were   dis- 
covered.    These  stoichiometric  laws,  as 

^^®     .     they  are  called,  are  as  follows  : — 
Stoicmometnc  ..  1-1        t  r    r^  -n 

La^s^  I.  **  ihe    Law   of    Constant    Propor- 

tion "  —  ne  same  chemical  compound 
always  contains  the  same  elements,  and  there  is  a 
constant  ratio  between  the  weights  of  the  constituent 
elements  present. 

2.  *'The  Law  of  Multiple  Proportions" — If  two 
substances  combine  chemically  in  more  than  one  pro- 
portion^  the  weights  of  the  one  which  combine  with 
a  given  weight  of  the  other,  stand  in  a  simple  rational 
ratio  to  one  another. 

3.  "  The  Law  of  Combining  Weights" — Substances 
combine  either  in  the  ratio  of  their  combining  numbers, 
or  in  simple  rational  multiples  or  submultiples  of  these 
numbers.  (The  weights  of  different  substances  which 
combine  with  a  given  weight  of  some  particular 
substance,  which  is  taken  as  the  unit,  are  called  the 
combining  numbers  of  such  substances  with  reference 
to  this  unit.  The  usual  unit  now  chosen  is  8  grammes 
of  Oxygen.)^ 

As  examples  of  these  laws  we  may  take  the  few 

following  simple  facts  : — 

*  In  order  that  these  laws  may  hold  good,  it  is,  of  course,  neces- 
sary that  the  substances  are  weighed  under  precisely  similar  con- 
ditions. To  state  these  laws  in  a  more  absolute  form,  we  can 
replace  the  term  "weight"  by  "mass,"  or  in  preference,  "inertia**; 
for  the  inertias  of  bodies  are  proportional  to  their  weights,  providing 
that  they  are  weighed  under  precisely  similar  conditions.  For  a 
discussion  of  the  exact  significance  of  these  terms  "mass"  and 
"inertia,"  the  reader  is  referred  to  the  present  writer's  Matter, 
Spirit  and  the  Cosmos  (Rider,  1910),  Chapter  I.,  "On  the  Doctrine 
of  the  Indestructibility  of  Matter." 


98  ALCHEMY  [§  U 

1.  Pure  water  is  found  always  to  consist  of  oxygen 
and  hydrogen  combined  in  the  ratio  of  i  'ooS  parts  by 
weight  of  the  latter  to  8  parts  by  weight  of  the 
former ;  and  pure  sulphur-dioxide,  to  take  another 
example,  is  found  always  to  consist  of  sulphur  and 
oxygen  combined  in  the  ratio  of  8*02  parts  by  weight 
of  sulphur  to  8  parts  by  weight  of  oxygen.  (The  Law 
of  Constant  Proportion.) 

2.  Another  compound  is  known  consisting  only  of 
oxygen  and  hydrogen,  which,  however,  differs  entirely 
in  its  properties  from  water.  It  is  found  always  to 
consist  of  oxygen  and  hydrogen  combined  in  the  ratio 
of  I '008  parts  by  weight  of  the  latter  to  16  parts  by 
weight  of  the  former,  z.e,,  in  it  a  definite  weight  of 
hydrogen  is  combined  with  an  amount  of  oxygen 
exactly  twice  that  which  is  combined  with  the  same 
weight  of  hydrogen  in  water.  No  definite  compound 
has  been  discovered  with  a  constitution  intermediate 
between  these  two.  Other  compounds  consisting 
only  of  sulphur  and  oxygen  are  also  known.  One  of 
these  (viz.,  sulphur-trioxide,  or  sulphuric  anhydride) 
is  found  always  to  consist  of  sulphur  and  oxygen 
combined  in  the  ratio  of  5*35  parts  by  weight  of 
sulphur  to  8  parts  by  weight  of  oxygen.  We  see, 
therefore,  that  the  weights  of  sulphur  combined  with  a 
definite  weight  of  oxygen  in  the  two  compounds  called 
respectively  *'  sulphur-dioxide  "  and  "  sulphur-tri- 
oxide," are  in  the  proportion  of  8*02  to  5*35,  i.e., 
3  :  2.  Similar  simple  ratios  are  obtained  in  the  case 
of  all  the  other  compounds.  (The  Law  of  Multiple 
Proportions.) 

3.   From  the  data  given  in  (i)  above  we  can  fix  the 
combining   number   of    hydrogen   as    i'oo8,    that   of 


§  75]    AGE   OF  MODERN   CHEMISTRY    99 

sulphur  as  8*02.  Now,  compounds  are  known  con- 
taining sulphur  and  hydrogen,  and,  in  each  case,  the 
weight  of  sulphur  combined  with  i*oo8  grammes  of 
hydrogen  is  found  always  to  be  either  8*02  grammes 
or  some  multiple  or  submultiple  of  this  quantity. 
Thus,  in  the  simplest  compound  of  this  sort,  con- 
taining only  hydrogen  and  sulphur  (viz.,  sulphuretted- 
hydrogen  or  hydrogen  sulphide),  i*oo8  grammes  of 
hydrogen  is  found  always  to  be  combined  with  16-04 
grammes  of  sulphur,  i.e.,  exactly  twice  the  above 
quantity.     (The  Law  of  Combining  Weights.) 

Berthollet  (1748-1822)  denied  the  truth  of  the  law 
of  constant  proportion,  and  hence,  of  course,  the  other 
stoichiometric  laws,  and  a  controversy  ensued  between 
this  chemist  and  Proust  (i 755-1 826),  who  undertook 
a  research  to  settle  the  question  and  in  whose  favour 
the  controversy  was  ultimately  decided. 

§  75.  At  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century, 

John  Dalton  (see  plate   15)  put  forward  his  Atomic 

Theory   in    explanation    of    these    facts. 

Dalton's        This  theory  assumes  (i)  that  all  matter 

Theory.  ^^  made  up  of  small  indivisible  and  in- 
destructible particles,  called  "atoms"; 
(2)  that  all  atoms  are  not  alike,  there  being  as  many 
different  sorts  of  atoms  as  there  are  elements;  (3)  that 
the  atoms  constituting  any  one  element  are  exactly 
alike  and  are  of  definite  weight  ;  and  (4)  that  com- 
pounds are  produced  by  the  combination  of  different 
atoms.  Now,  it  is  at  once  evident  that  if  matter  be 
so  constituted,  the  stoichiometric  laws  must  necessarily 
follow.  For  the  smallest  particle  of  any  definite  com- 
pound (now  called  a  "molecule")  must  consist  of 
a  definite  assemblage  of  different  atoms,   and    these 


100  ALCHEMY  [§  75 

atoms  are  of  definite  weight :  whence  the  law  of 
constant  proportion.  One  atom  of  one  substance  may 
combine  with  i,  2,  3  .  .  .  atoms  of  some  other  sub- 
stance, but  it  cannot  combine  with  some  fractional  part 
of  an  atom,  since  the  atoms  are  indivisible  :  whence 
the  law  of  multiple  proportions.  And  these  laws 
holding  good,  and  the  atoms  being  of  definite  weight, 
the  law  of  combining  weights  necessarily  follows. 
Dalton's  Atomic  Theory  gave  a  simple  and  intelligible 
explanation  of  these  remarkable  facts  regarding  the 
weights  of  substances  entering  into  chemical  combina- 
tion, and,  therefore,  gained  universal  acceptance.  But 
throughout  the  history  of  Chemistry  can  be  discerned 
a  spirit  of  revolt  against  it  as  an  explanation  of  the 
absolute  constitution  of  matter.  The  tendency  of 
scientific  philosophy  has  always  been  towards  Monism 
as  opposed  to  Dualism,  and  here  were  not  merely  two 
eternals,  but  several  dozen  ;  Dalton's  theory  denied 
the  unity  of  the  Cosmos,  it  lacked  the  unifying 
principle  of  the  alchemists.  It  is  only  in  recent  times 
that  it  has  been  recognised  that  a  scientific  hypothesis 
may  be  very  useful  without  being  altogether  true. 
As  to  the  usefulness  of  Dalton's  theory  there  can  be 
na  question  ;  it  has  accomplished  that  which  no  other 
hypothesis  could  have  done  ;  it  rendered  the  concepts 
of  a  chemical  element,  a  chemical  compound  and  a 
chemical  reaction  definite  ;  and  has,  in  a  sense,  led  to 
the  majority  of  the  discoveries  in  the  domain  of 
Chemistry  that  have  been  made  since  its  enunciq,tion. 
But  as  an  expression  of  absolute  truth,  Dalton's 
theory,  as  is  very  generally  recognised  nowadays,  fails 
to  be  satisfactory.  In  the  past,  however,  it  has  been 
the  philosophers  of  the  materialistic  school  of  thought, 


PLATE  i6. 


Can'kfSc 


PORTRAIT   OF   JOHN    DALTON. 


To  face  page  icoj 


§  75]    AGE   OF  MODERN   CHEMISTRY   101 

rather  than  the  chemists  qua  chemists,  who  have 
insisted  on  the  absolute  truth  of  the  Atomic  Theory ; 
Kekul^,  who  by  developing  Franklin's  theory  of 
atomicity  or  valency  3  made  still  more  definite  the 
atomic  view  of  matter,  himself  expressed  grave  doubts 
as  to  the  absolute  truth  of  Dalton's  theory ;  but  he 
regarded  it  as  chemically  true,  and  thus  voices  what 
appears  to  be  the  opinion  of  the  majority  of  chemists 
nowadays,  namely,  there  are  such  things  as  chemical 
atoms  and  chemical  elements,  incapable  of  being 
decomposed  by  purely  chemical  means,  but  that  such 
are   not   absolute   atoms   or   absolute   elements,    and 

3  The  term  "  valency "  is  not  altogether  an  easy  one  to  define ; 
we  will,  however,  here  do  our  best  to  make  plain  its  significance. 
In  a  definite  chemical  compound  we  must  assume  that  the  atoms 
constituting  each  molecule  are  in  some  way  bound  together  (though 
not,  of  course,  rigidly),  and  we  may  speak  of  "  bonds  "  or  "  links  of 
affinity,"  taking  care,  however,  not  to  interpret  such  terms  too 
literally.  Now,  the  number  of  "  affinity  links  "  which  one  atom  can 
exert  is  not  unlimited  \  indeed,  according  to  the  valency  theory  as 
first  formulated,  it  is  fixed  and  constant.  It  is  this  number  which  is 
called  the  "  valency  "  of  the  element ;  but  it  is  now  known  that  the 
"  valency  "  in  most  cases  can  vary  between  certain  limits.  Hydro- 
gen, however,  appears  to  be  invariably  univalent,  and  is  therefore 
taken  as  the  unit  of  valency.  Thus,  Carbon  is  quadrivalent  in  the 
methane- molecule,  which  consists  of  one  atom  of  carbon  combined 
with  four  atoms  of  hydrogen  ;  and  Oxygen  is  divalent  in  the  water- 
molecule,  which  consists  of  one  atom  of  oxygen  combined  with  two 
atoms  of  hydrogen.  Hence,  we  should  expect  to  find  one  atom  of 
carbon  combining  with  two  of  oxygen,  which  is  the  case  in  the 
carbon-dioxide — (carbonic  anhydride)  —  molecule.  The  under- 
lying reason  of  this  regularity  remains  unknown  (see  §  8i),  and 
there  are  very  many  curious  exceptions  to  it.  For  a  development  of 
the  thesis,  so  far  as  the  compounds  of  carbon  are  concerned,  that 
each  specific  "  affinity  link  "  corresponds  in  general  to  a  definite  and 
constant  amount  of  energy,  which  is  evolved  as  heat  on  disruption 
of  the  bond,  the  reader  is  referred  to  the  present  writer's  monograph 
On  the  Calculation  of  Thermo- Chemical  Constants  (Arnold,  1909). 


102  ALCHEMY  [§  77 

consequently  not  impervious  to   all   forms  of  action. 

But  of  this  more  will  be  said  later. 

§  76.  With   the    acceptance    of    Dalton's    Atomic 

Theory,  it  became  necessary  to  determine  the  atomic 

weights  of  the  various  elements,  i.e.,  not 

Determination  ^^^    absolute    atomic    weights,    but    the 

of  the  Atomic  relative    weights    of    the    various   atoms 

Weights  of     ^j|.]-^  reference  to  one  of  them  as  unit.4 
the   Elements.   ___  .       .  .        , 

We  cannot  m  this  place  enter   upon   a 

discussion  of  the  various  difficulties,  both  of  an  experi- 
mental and  theoretical  nature,  which  were  involved  in 
this  problem,  save  to  remark  that  the  correct  atomic 
weights  could  be  arrived  at  only  with  the  acceptance 
of  Avogadro's  Hypothesis.  This  hypothesis,  which  is 
to  the  effect  that  equal  volumes  of  different  gases 
measured  at  the  same  temperature  and  pressure 
contain  an  equal  number  of  gaseous  molecules,  was 
put  forward  in  explanation  of  a  number  of  facts 
connected  with  the  physical  behaviour  of  gases ;  but 
its  importance  was  for  some  time  unrecognised,  owing 
to  the  fact  that  the  distinction  between  atoms  and 
molecules  was  not  yet  clearly  drawn.  A  list  of  those 
chemical  substances  at  present  recognised  as  "  ele- 
ments," together  with  their  atomic  weights,  will  be 
found  on  pp.   io6,    107. 

§  77.   It  was  observed  by  a  chemist  of  the  name  of 
Prout,  that,  the  atomic  weight  of  hydrogen  being  taken 

♦  Since  hydrogen  is  the  lightest  of  all  known  substances,  the  unit, 
Hydrogen  =  i,  was  atone  time  usually  employed.  However,  it  was 
seen  to  be  more  convenient  to  express  the  atomic  weights  in  terms 
of  the  weight  of  the  oxygen-atom,  and  the  unit.  Oxygen  =  i6  is  now 
always  employed.  This  value  for  the  oxygen-atom  was  chosen  so 
that  the  approximate  atomic  weights  would  in  most  cases  remain 
unaltered  by  the  change. 


§  77]   AGE   OF  MODERN   CHEMISTRY   103 

as  the  unit,  the  atomic  weights  of  nearly  all  the  ele- 
ments approximated  to  whole  numbers  ;  and  in   1 8 1 5 

he  suggested  as  the  reason  for  this  regu- 
^°?*  ^.       larity,  that  all  the  elements  consist  solely 

of  hydrogen.  Prout's  Hypothesis  received 
on  the  whole  a  very  favourable  reception ;  it  harmonised 
Dalton's  Theory  with  the  grand  concept  of  the  unity 
of  matter — all  matter  was  hydrogen  in  essence  ;  and 
Thomas  Thomson  undertook  a  research  to  demon- 
strate its  truth.  On  the  other  hand,  however,  the 
eminent  Swedish  chemist,  Berzelius,  who  had  carried 
out  many  atomic  weight  determinations,  criticised 
both  Prout's  Hypothesis  and  Thomson's  research 
(which  latter,  it  iis  true,  was  worthless)  in  most 
severe  terms ;  for  the  hypothesis  amounted  to  this — 
that  the  decimals  in  the  atomic  weights  obtained 
experimentally  by  Berzelius,  after  so  much  labour, 
were  to  be  regarded  as  so  many  errors.  In  1844, 
Marignac  suggested  half  the  hydrogen  atom  as  the 
unit,  for  the  element  chlorine,  with  an  atomic  weight 
^^  35*5»  would  not  fit  in  with  Prout's  Hypothesis  as 
originally  formulated ;  and  later,  Dumas  suggested 
one-quarter.  With  this  theoretical  division  of  the 
hydrogen-atom,  the  hypothesis  lost  its  simplicity  and 
charm,  and  was  doomed  to  downfall.  Recent  and 
most  accurate  atomic  weight  determinations  show 
clearly  that  the  atomic  weights  are  not  exactly  whole 
numbers,  but  that,  nevertheless,  the  majority  of  them  (if 
expressed  in  terms  of  0=  16  as  the  unit)  do  approxi- 
mate very  closely  to  such.  The  Hon.  R.  J.  Strutthas 
recently  calculated  that  the  probability  of  this  occur- 
ring, in  the  case  of  certain  of  the  commoner  elements, 
by   mere   chance   is   exceedingly    small   (about    i    in 


104  ALCHEMY  [§  77 

i,ooo.)5  Several  hypotheses  attempting  to  explain 
this  very  remarkable  fact  have  been  put  forward, 
but  its  real  significance  still  remains  unknown.^ 

5  Hon.  R.  J.  Strutt  :  **  On  the  Tendency  of  the  Atomic  Weights 
to  approximate  to  Whole  Numbers,"  Philosophical  Magazine  [6], 
vol.  i.  (1901),  pp.   311  et  seq, 

^  Two  examples  of  these  attempts  must  here  suffice.  Mr.  A.  C.  G. 
Egerton  ("The  Divergence  of  the  Atomic  Weights  of  the  Lighter 
Elements  from  Whole  Numbers,"  Journal  of  the  Chemical  Societyy 
vol.  xcv.  pp.  238  et  seq.y  1909)  finds  that  the  atomic  weights  (H=i) 
of  the  lighter  elements  (up  to  Phosphorus)  can  be  calculated  with 
considerable  accuracy  by  means  of  the  formulae — 

(i)  M  =  2N  ±  0*0078  X  2N     and    (ii)  M  =  2N  4-  i  ±  0*0078  X  2N, 

where  M  is  the  atomic  weight,  and  N  the  number  of  the  element, 
reckoning  Helium  as  2,  Lithium  as  3,  and  so  on,  the  elements  being 
numbered  in  the  order  of  their  atomic  weights.  The  first  formula 
applies  in  the  case  of  "  even  "  elements,  the  second  in  the  case  of 
"odd"  elements.  For  elements  of  higher  atomic  weight,  similar 
but  niore  complicated  formulae  were  found  for  those  with  atoms 
not  heavier  than  Cobalt.  Beyond  Cobalt  the  method  does  not 
appear  to  be  applicable.  The  author  suggests  that,  since  the  figure 
0*0078  represents  approximately  the  weight  of  a  group  of  eight 
electrons  (see  below,  §§79  and  80),  the  elements  may  be  built  up 
of  conglomerates  of  hydrogen  atoms  with  groups  of  eight  or  sixteen 
electrons  added  or  subtracted.  But,  as  he  remarks  at  the  close  of 
his  paper  (p.  242),  "  The  physical  interpretation  of  the  relation  given 
is  evidently  not  the  only  one  that  can  be  devised.  Since  the  ele- 
ments are  built  up  by  the  conglomeration  of  the  fundamental  stuff, 
although  not  necessarily  evolved  in  order  of  atomic  weight,  and 
since  the  atoms  probably  differ  in  internal  structure,  there  are  certain 
to  be  changes  in  the  internal  energy  of  the  atoms  causing  slight 
differences  in  mass.  One  would  expect  such  changes  to  be  pro- 
portional to  the  increase  of  the  amount  of  the  original  stuff  which 
conglomerates ;  the  formula  M  =  A  ±  A  (0.0078)  [A  =  2NI  agrees 
with  this  idea;  and,  further,  it  is  conceivable  that  an  increase  in 
the  size  of  an  atom,  due  to  addition  of  more  matter,  and  the 
formation  of  a  new  atom,  might  either  cause  an  increase  or  decrease 
of  energy  according  to  the  configuration  of  the  new  atom  ;  the 
positive  and  negative  sign  in  the  formula  might  thus  be  explained." 


§78]  AGE   OF   MODERN   CHEMISTRY    105 

§  78.  A  remarkable  property  of  the  atomic  weights 

was    discovered,    in    the    sixties,    independently    by 

Lothar   Meyer   and    Mendeleeff.     They 

The  found     that      the     elements     could     be 

La^ »        arranged  in  rows  in  the  order    of   their 

atomic  weights  so  that  similar  elements 

would  be  found  in  the  same  columns.     A  modernised 

form  of  the  Periodic  Table  will  be  found  on  pp.  io6,  107. 

It  will  be  noticed,    for  example,    that  the    "alkali'* 

metals.  Lithium,  Sodium,  Rubidium  and  Caesium,  which 

Dr.  James  Moir  ("A  Method  of  Harmonising  the  Atomic  Weights,'* 
Journal  of  the  Chemical  Society^  vol.  xcv.  pp.  1752  et  seq.^  1909) 
criticises  the  above-mentioned  paper.  He  assumes  (p.  1752)  "the 
cause  of  valency,  at  all  events  the  fundamental  valency  of  each 
element,  to  be  the  presence,  in  varying  numbers,  of  a  sub-element 
of  atomic  weight  y^Tj-  [=  -0089] ....  If  this  be  denoted  by  /i,  then 
the  univalent  elements  contain  i^,  the  bivalent  2/i,  the  tervalent  3/i, 
and  so  on.  In  addition,  the  author  conceives  the  main  bulk  of 
the  mass  of  the  elements  to  be  due  to  polymerisation  of  an  entity 
consisting  of  the  hydrogen  atom  less  the  aggregation  /z.  Denoting 
this  by  H,  we  have,  for  example:  H  =  H-f-/ii;  Li=7H-H/i; 
C  =  12H  +  4/ii ;  O  =  16H  -f  2/i ;  Ne  =  20H ;  Na  =  23H  -f  /x ; 
Ag  =  108H  +  fi ;  Cs  =  133H  -I-  /i."  The  atomic  weights  calcu- 
lated on  these  assumptions  are  in  excellent  agreement  with  the 
experimental.     Thus — 

H  -h  /*  =  H  =  1-0078, 

therefore 

H  =  1*0078  -  '0089  —  '9989. 
Li  =  7H  +  /i  =  7'ooi  (Experimental  value  =  6'94) 
O  =  16H  4"  2/i  =  1 6'ooo  (Experimental  value  =  i6*oo) 
Ne  =  20H  =  19-978  (Experimental  value  =  20*2),  &c. 

However,  there  are  some  elements  which  do  not  fit  into  this  scheme, 
and  whose  atomic  weights  can  be  calculated  by  this  method  only  by 
employing  multiples  of  H  involving  one  decimal  figure  (for  example, 
Chlorine  and  Sulphur),  which  elements  the  author  regards  as  not 
being  direct  polymerides  of  H. 


106 


ALCHEMY 


[§78 


00 

Iron      Fe  =»  5585 <= 
Cobalt  Co  =  58-97 
Nickel  Ni  =  58  68 

II  li*  li* 

.2  e  1 
113 

e- 

i 

(U  en 
.2  cv 

r»- 

Ill 

to 

5? 

Cxro 

S  P 
.2  N 

60 

If 

|P 

S  H 

Is 

CO 

S  p 

S  11 

1? 

§  It 
>> 

0?- 

S  vo 

la 
55 

r 

■|i 

>• 

li 

1  II 

■if 
60 

If 

p 

H  a 

eo 

PQ 

s  r 

wa5 

0 

8- 

00 

3  ^ 

In" 
1— 1 

ea 

OO 

1^ 
If 

SvO 

.2  i^ 

-00 

0  a 
^cJ5 

3   « 

'^  II 

OS 

f* 

p 

2  <^ 
'53  f^ 

c2« 

6  .^ 

3   VO 

:s  B 
3  -, 

§8 

o 

■-5  II 

00 

c  P' 

§  78]    AGE   OF  MODERN  CHEMISTRY   107 


ft. 

Osmium   Os  =  190*9 
Iridium      Ir  =  193*1 
Platinum  Pt  =  195*2 

<v, 

rk. 

n- 

rw. 

n» 

fV. 

rv- 

- 

rv. 

•is> 

S  11 
»3 

f\m 

fV. 

s2 

c  II 

0 

if 

PQ 

f»- 

ru 

^v. 

0 

1^ 

fV- 

rv- 

s2. 
•If 

OJ     H 

fi- 

-2  ^ 

ru 

f^ 

0 

.|s> 

n. 

- 

n3  ON 
< 

r«- 

§8, 

A- 

i? 

s5^>:a    ^ 


p3  3 

>    D  O  -S 

^O    <U  y    O 

'^.^  ^-G 

•^    S  O    In 

■t:  s  1^ 

r!  o  oj  (u 

CO     173  <U 

<L)  ^     >^ 


S  g  S  o 
■5  c  D  g 

CO  a,  c 

2--  =^ 

<u  -"  G  £2 

H     -a- 
o  t/i^  53 

to   g        -a 

■5  ^--2 


3 
O 

bjs 


c 

g  ^ 


O    u 

ii  ^2 

3!        ^i 

■5  cJi 

^  -^H 

I.S 

.a  c 

g.2 

k-  "C    cJ  J3    CI, 

^  ^  H  .ti  H 

G 


1^ 


1) 


H'^  (o^ 
G  g:2 


■2i  |>  0.2^  o 


t:        4i 


fO 


gH  c  -^i     '^      to  w-t:  rt  •-  2 

^  go  g  i  g  -  o    o^^^ 

j_,.0     »,jQ^^i-i'T3G'«-      T.„ 
^  ^J3M^M  *-^   Otfl  g^o  a 

gS*iti'Orf.g°^-o  2Sii 

o  -^  :S  fn^  ^  ^  S  <  -r^  ^  « 

::g^G-^^^g-2^-?g« 

"'^°^S.|.2-§2'§^g^ 


o  tJ 


<"  o 
ti  g 


i5  g 


d  w  S 

S   O    '^•^   ;ii    PI   !5    "  _e  d  fli 

^  -a  3  G  *"  X  0  >»-§  ™  3^ 

--i    ^-5    g    <U   (U   G<4J    ^  5^  S 


o  >r>-Q  fli  cj  'w 


O   cJ 


1)  (U  -5    OJ    <u 

Gr5    C^  G*^*^  V; 

G^-2.^        g  g  ^ 

§  ^  x:  "*      ^  ^  S 

to  H   ^  ."S        13  13  eS 


'C   C   cJ 


108  ALCHEMY  [§  78 

resemble  one  another  very  closely,  fall  in  Column  i ; 
the  "alkaline  earth"  metals  occur  together  in  Column  2  ; 
though  in  each  case  these  are  accompanied  by  certain 
elements  with  somewhat  different  properties.  Much 
the  same  holds  good  in  the  case  of  the  other  columns  of 
this  Table ;  there  is  manifested  a  remarkable  regularity, 
with  certain  still  more  remarkable  divergences  (see 
notes  appended  to  Table  on  pp.  106,  107).  This  regu- 
larity exhibited  by  the  **  elements  "  is  of  considerable 
importance,  since  it  shows  that,  in  general,  the  pro- 
perties of  the  "  elements "  are  periodic  functions  of 
their  atomic  weights  ;  and,  together  with  certain  other 
remarkable  properties  of  the  **  elements,"  distinguishes 
them  sharply  from  the  **  compounds."  It  may  be 
concluded  with  tolerable  certainty,  therefore,  that 
if  the  '*  elements "  are  in  reality  of  a  compound 
nature,  they  are  all,  in  general,  compounds  of  a  like 
nature  distinct  from  that  of  other  compounds. 

It  is  now  some  years  since  Sir  William  Crookes  first 
attempted  to  explain  the  periodicity  of  the  properties 
of  the  elements  on  the  theory  that  they  have  all  been 
evolved  by  a  conglomerating  process  from  some  primal 
stuff — the  protyle — consisting  of  very  small  particles. 
He  represents  the  action  of  this  generative  cause 
by  means  of  a  **  figure  of  eight "  spiral,  along  which 
the  elements  are  placed  at  regular  intervals,  so  that 
similar  elements  come  underneath  one  another,  as  in 
Mendeleeff  s  table,  though  the  grouping  difTers  in 
some  respects.  The  slope  of  the  curve  is  supposed 
to  represent  the  decline  of  some  factor  {e.g.,  tempera- 
ture) conditioning  the  process,  which  process  is 
assumed  to  be  of  a  recurrent  nature,  like  the  swing 
of  a  pendulum.     After  the  completion  of  one  swing 


§  79]   AGE   OF  MODERN   CHEMISTRY  109 

(to  keep  to  the  Illustration  of  a  pendulum)  whereby 
one  series  of  elements  is  produced,  owing  to  the 
decline  of  the  above-mentioned  factor,  the  same  series 
of  elements  is  not  again  the  result  as  would  otherwise 
be  the  case,  but  a  somewhat  different  series  is  pro- 
duced, each  member  of  which  resembles  the  corre- 
sponding member  of  the  former  series.  Thus,  if  the 
first  series  contains,  for  example,  helium,  lithium, 
carbon,  &c.,  the  second  series  will  contain  instead, 
argon,  potassium,  titanium,  &c.  The  whole  theory, 
though  highly  interesting,  is,  however,  by  no  means 
free  from  defects. 

§  79.  We  must  now  turn  our  attention  to  those 
recent   views    of    the    constitution   of  matter   which 

^  originated  to  a  great  extent  in   the  in- 

Corpuscular    vestigations  of  the  passage  of  electricity 
Theory  of      through  gases  at  very  low  pressures.     It 

^  ®^'  will  be  possible,  however,  on  the  present 
occasion,  to  give  only  the  very  briefest  account  of 
the  subject;  but  a  fuller  treatment  is  rendered 
unnecessary  by  the  fact  that  these  and  allied  in- 
vestigations and  the  theories  to  which  they  have 
given  rise  have  been  fully  treated  in  several  well- 
known  works,  by  various  authorities  on  the  subject, 
which  have  appeared  during  the  last  few  years.7 

When  an  electrical  discharge  is  passed  through  a 
high-vacuum  tube,  invisible  rays  are  emitted  from  the 
kathode,  generally  with  the  production  of  a  greenish- 

7  We  have  found  Prof.  Harry  Jones'  The  Electrical  Nature  oj 
Matter  and  Radioactivity  (1906),  Mr.  Soddy's  Radioactivity  (1904), 
and  Mr.  Whetham's  The  Recent  Development  of  Physical  Science 
(1909)  particularly  interesting.  Mention,  of  course,  should  also 
be  made  of  the  standard  works  of  Prof.  Sir  J.  J.  Thomson  and 
Prof.  Rutherford. 


110  ALCHEMY  [§  80 

yellow  fluorescence  where  they  strike  the  glass  walls 
of  the  tube.  These  rays  are  called  "  kathode  rays." 
At  one  time  they  were  regarded  as  waves  in  the  ether, 
but  it  was  shown  by  Sir  William  Crookes  that  they 
consist  of  small  electrically  charged  particles,  moving 
with  a  very  high  velocity.  Sir  J.  J.  Thomson  was 
able  to  determine  the  ratio  of  the  charge  carried  by 
these  particles  to  their  mass  or  inertia ;  he  found  that 
this  ratio  was  constant  whatever  gas  was  contained  in 
the  vacuum  tube,  and  much  greater  than  the  corre- 
sponding ratio  for  the  hydrogen  ion  (electrically 
charged  hydrogen  atom)  in  electrolysis.  By  a  skilful 
method,  based  on  the  fact  discovered  by  Mr.  C.  T.  R. 
Wilson,  that  charged  particles  can  serve  as  nuclei  for 
the  condensation  of  water-vapour,  he  was  further  able 
to  determine  the  value  of  the  electrical  charge  carried 
by  these  particles,  which  was  found  to  be  constant 
also,  and  equal  to  the  charge  carried  by  univalent  ions, 
e.g.,  hydrogen,  in  electrolysis.  Hence,  it  follows  that 
the  mass  of  these  kathode  particles  must  be  much 
smaller  than  the  hydrogen  ion,  the  actual  ratio  being 
about  I  :  1 700.  The  first  theory  put  forward  by  Sir 
J.  J.  Thomson  in  explanation  of  these  facts,  was  that 
these  kathode  particles  (**  corpuscles  "  as  he  termed 
them)  were  electrically  charged  portions  of  matter, 
much  smaller  than  the  smallest  atom  ;  and  since  the 
same  sort  of  corpuscle  is  obtained  whatever  gas  is 
contained  in  the  vacuum  tube,  it  is  reasonable  to 
conclude  that  the  corpuscle  is  the  common  unit  of  all 
matter. 

§  80.  This  eminent  physicist,  however,  had  shown 
mathematically  that  a  charged  particle  moving  with 
a   very   high    velocity    (approaching   that    of    light) 


§  80]  AGE   OF  MODERN   CHEMISTRY    111 

would    exhibit   an   appreciable    increase    in    mass    or 

inertia  due  to  the  charge,  the  magnitude  of  such  inertia 

depending  on  the  velocity  of  the  particle.     This  was 

•n-    r  xr.  X     experimentallv    verified    by    Kaufmann, 
Proof  that         ^  .,i  ,..  11 

the  Electrons   who    determmed  the  velocities,  and  the 

are  not  ratios  between  the  electrical  char2:e  and 
*  ®^*  the  inertia,  of  various  kathode  particles 
and  similar  particles  which  are  emitted  by  com- 
pounds of  radium  (see  §§  89  and  90).  Sir  J.  J. 
Thomson  calculated  these  values  on  the  assumption 
that  the  inertia  of  such  particles  is  entirely  of  electrical 
origin,  and  thereby  obtained  values  in  remarkable 
agreement  with  the  experimental.  There  is,  there- 
fore, no  reason  for  supposing  the  corpuscle  to  be 
matter  at  all ;  indeed,  if  it  were,  the  above  agreement 
would  not  be  obtained.  As  Professor  Jones  says : 
**  Since  we  know  things  only  by  their  properties,  and 
since  all  the  properties  of  the  corpuscle  are  accounted 
for  by  the  electrical  charge  associated  with  it,  why 
assume  that  the  corpuscle  contains  anything  but  the 
electrical  charge?  It  is  obvious  that  there  is  no 
reason  for  doing  so. 

**  T/ie  corpuscle  isy  then,  nothing  but  a  disembodied 
electrical  charge,  containing  nothing  material,  as  we 
have  been  accustomed  to  use  that  term.  It  is  elec- 
tricity, and  nothing  but  electricity.  With  this  new 
conception  a  new  term  was  introduced,  and,  now, 
instead  of  speaking  of  the  corpuscle  we  speak  of  the 
electron''^  Applying  this  modification  to  the  above 
view  of  the  constitution  of  matter,  we  have  what  is 
called    "the    electronic    theory,"    namely,    that    the 

2  H.  C.  Jones  :  The  Electrical  Nature  of  Matter  and  Radioactivity 
(1906),  p.  21. 


112  ALCHEMY  [§  81 

material  atoms  consist  of  electrons,  or  units  of  elec- 
tricity in  rapid  motion  ;  which  amounts  to  this — that 
matter  is  simply  an  electrical  phenomenon. 

§  81.  Sir  J.  J.  Thomson  has  elaborated  this  theory 

of  the  nature  and  constitution  of  matter  ;  he  has  shown 

what  systems  of  electrons  would  be  stable, 

Electronic      and   has  attempted   to  find   therein  the 

Theory  of  significance  of  Mendeldeff's  generalisa- 
^  ®^*  tion  and  the  explanation  of  valency. 
There  can  be  no  doubt  that  there  is  a  consider- 
able element  of  truth  in  the  electronic  theory  of 
matter ;  the  one  characteristic  property  of  matter, 
i.e.,  inertia,  can  be  accounted-for  electrically;  but 
further  than  this  it  is  not  yet  possible  to  say.  The 
fundamental  difficulty  is  that  the  electrons  are  units 
of  negative  electricity,  whereas  matter  is  electrically 
neutral.  Is  there  a  positive  electron?  Professor  Sir 
J.  J.  Thomson  assumes  a  sphere  or  shell  of  positive 
electrification  wherein  the  (negative)  electrons  re- 
volve ;  and  to  this  positive  electricity,  it  seems,  must 
be  ascribed  the  major  portion  of  the  inertia  or  mass 
of  the  atom,  for  recent  work  has  proved  that  the 
number  of  electrons  in  an  atom  is  approximately 
equal  to  the  atomic  weight  of  that  atom  as  expressed 
in  terms  of  H  =  i  or  O  =  i6  as  unit.  This  fact  has 
rather  discountenanced  the  corpuscular  and  electronic 
theories  of  matter,  which  as  originally  formulated 
assumed  the  whole  mass  of  the  atom  to  be  due  alone 
to  corpuscles  or  electrons,  and,  therefore,  required  the 
atoms  to  contain  thousands  of  such  units  ;  but,  as  Pro- 
fessor Sir  J.  J.  Thomson  has  pointed  out,  it  is  not  really 
incompatible  therewith,  if,  as  does  not  seem  unlikely, 
all  mass  Is  really  mass  of  the  ether  of  space  (see  next 


§  82]    AGE   OF  MODERN   CHEMISTRY   113 

section).9  The  whole  question,  however,  cannot  be 
regarded  as  finally  settled  ;  but  it  is  hoped  that  further 
research  will  throw  light  on  the  disputed  points. 

§  82.  The   analysis   of  matter  has  been  carried  a 

step  further.     A   philosophical  view   of  the  Cosmos 

,  involves  the  assumption  of  an  absolutely 

Etheric  continuous  and  homogeneous  medium 
Theory  of  filling  all  space,  for  an  absolute 
*  ®^'  vacuum  is  unthinkable,  and  if  it  were 
supposed  that  the  stuff  filling  all  space  is  of  an 
atomic  structure,  the  question  arises.  What  occupies 
the  interstices  between  its  atoms?  This  ubiquitous 
medium  is  termed  by  the  scientists  of  to-day  **the 
Ether  of  Space."  Moreover,  such  a  medium  as  the 
Ether  is  demanded  by  the  phenomena  of  light.  It 
appears,  however,  that  the  ether  of  space  has  another 
and  a  still  more  important  function  than  the  trans- 
mission of  light  :  the  idea  that  matter  has  its  explana- 
tion therein  is  being  developed  by  Sir  Oliver  Lodge. 
The  evidence  certainly  points  to  the  conclusion  that 
matter  is  some  sort  of  singularity  in  the  ether,  prob- 
ably a  stress  centre.  We  have  been  too  much 
accustomed  to  think  of  the  ether  as  something 
excessively  light  and  quite  the  reverse  of  massive 
or  dense,  in  which  it  appears  we  have  been  wrong. 
Sir  Oliver  Lodge  calculates  that  the  density  of  the 
ether  is  far  greater  than  that  of  the  most  dense  forms 
of  matter  ;  not  that  matter  is  to  be  thought  of  as  a 
rarefaction  of  the  ether,  for  the  ether  within  matter 
is  as  dense  as  that  without.  What  we  call  matter, 
however,  is  not  a  continuous  substance  ;  it  consists, 

9  See  Professor  Sir  J.  J.  Thomson  :  The  Corpuscular  Theory  of 
Matter  (1907),  especially  pp.  142  et  seq. 

9 


114  ALCHEMY  [§  83 

rather,  of  a  number  of  widely  separated  particles, 
whence  its  comparatively  small  density  compared 
with  the  perfectly  continuous  ether.  Further,  if  there 
is  a  difficulty  in  conceiving  how  a  perfect  fluid  like  the 
ether  can  give  rise  to  a  solid  body  possessed  of  such 
properties  as  rigidity,  impenetrability  and  elasticity, 
we  must  remember  that  all  these  properties  can  be 
produced  by  means  of  motion.  A  jet  of  water  moving 
with  a  sufficient  velocity  behaves  like  a  rigid  and  im- 
penetrable solid,  whilst  a  revolving  disc  of  paper 
exhibits  elasticity  and  can  act  as  a  circular  saw.^^  It 
appears,  therefore,  that  the  ancient  doctrine  of  the 
alchemistic  essence  is  fundamentally  true  after  all, 
that  out  of  the  **  One  Thing  "  all  material  things  have 
been  produced  by  adaptation  or  modification  ;  and,  as 
we  have  already  noticed  {§  60),  there  also  appears  to 
be  some  resemblance  between  the  concept  of  the 
electron  and  that  of  the  seed  of  gold,  which  seed,  it 
should  be  borne  in  mind,  was  regarded  by  the 
alchemists  as  the  common  seed  of  all  metals. 

§  83.  There   are    also    certain   other   facts   which 

appear  to  demand  such   a   modification   of  Dalton's 

Atomic    Theory    as     is     found    in    the 

Evidence       Electronic  Theory.     One  of  the  charac- 

of  the         teristics  of  the  chemical  elements  is  that 

Complexity     each   one  gives   a  spectrum  peculiar  to 

of  the  Atoms.   .      ,r       ^^  ^  ^  1  ^ 

Itself.      The    spectrum    of     an    element 

must,  therefore,  be  due  to  its  atoms,  which  in  some 

way   are   able,    at    a    sufficiently   high    temperature, 

to  act  upon  the  ether  so  as  to  produce  vibrations  of 

definite    and    characteristic   wave-length.       Now,    in 

many  cases   the   number   of  lines  of  definite  wave- 

^°  See  Sir  Oliver  Lodge,  F.R.S.  :  T/ie  Ether  of  Space  (1909). 


§85]   AGE   OF   MODERN   CHEMISTRY   115 

length  observed  in  such  a  spectrum  is  considerable, 
for  example,  hundreds  of  different  lines  have  been 
observed  in  the  arc-spectrum  of  iron.  But  it  is  in- 
credible that  an  atom,  if  it  were  a  simple  unit,  would 
give  rise  to  such  a  number  of  different  and  definite 
vibrations,  and  the  only  reasonable  conclusion  is  that 
the  atoms  must  be  complex  in  structure.  We  may 
here  mention  that  spectroscopic  examination  of  various 
heavenly  bodies  leads  to  the  conclusion  that  there  is 
some  process  of  evolution  at  work  building  up  com- 
plex elements  from  simpler  ones,  since  the  hottest 
nebulae  appear  to  consist  of  but  a  few  simple  elements, 
whilst  cooler  bodies  exhibit  a  greater  complexity. 

§  85.  Such    modifications    of    the    atomic    theory 
as  those  we  have  briefly  discussed  above,   although 
profoundly  modifying,  and,  indeed,  con- 
Views  of      trovertinp^  the  philosophical  sis^nificance 
Ostwald.       ^^  Dalton's  theory  as  originally   formu- 
lated,   leave    its     chemical    significance 
practically  unchanged.     The  atoms  can  be  regarded 
no  longer  as  the  eternal,  indissoluble  gods  of  Nature 
that  they  were  once  supposed  to  be ;  thus,  Materialism 
is  deprived  of  what  was  thought  to  be  its  scientific 
basis.  ^  I     But  the  science  of  Chemistry  is  unaffected 
thereby  ;  the  atoms  are  not  the  ultimate  units  out  of 
which  material  things  are  built,  but  the  atoms  cannot 
be    decomposed    by    purely    chemical   means  ;     the 
'*  elements "   are   not   truly   elemental,    but  ^Aey   are 
chemical  elements.     However,  the  atomic  theory  has 
been   subjected    to   a   far   more    searching    criticism. 
Wald  argues  that  substances  obey  the  law  of  definite 

"  For  a  critical  examination  of  Materialism,  the  reader  is  referred 
to  the  present  writer's  Matter^  Spirit  and  the  Cosmos  (Rider,  1910), 
especially  Chapters  I.  and  IV. 


116  ALCHEMY  [§  M 

proportions  because  of  the  way  in  which  they  are 
prepared ;  chemists  refuse,  he  says,  to  admit  any 
substance  as  a  definite  chemical  compound  unless  it 
does  obey  this  law.  Wald's  opinions  have  been 
supported  by  Professor  Ostwald,  who  has  attempted 
to  deduce  the  other  stoichiometric  laws  on  these 
grounds  without  assuming  any  atomic  hypothesis  ^^ ; 
but  these  new  ideas  do  not  appear  to  have  gained 
the  approval  of  chemists  in  general.  It  is  not  to  be 
supposed  that  chemists  will  give  up  without  a  struggle 
a  mental  tool  of  such  great  utility  as  Dalton's  theory, 
in  spite  of  its  defects,  has  proved  itself  to  be.  There 
does  seem,  however,  to  be  logic  in  the  arguments  of 
Wald  and  Ostwald,  but  it  is  too  early  in  the  history 
of  the  controversy  to  say  what  the  ultimate  result  will 
be.  So  far  as  can  be  seen,  however,  it  appears  that, 
on  the  one  hand,  the  atomic  theory  is  not  necessitated 
by  the  so-called  "stoichiometric  laws";  whilst,  on 
the  other  hand,  a  molecular  constitution  of  matter 
seems  to  be  demanded  by  the  phenomenon  known 
as  the  "  Brownian  Movement,"  i.e.,  the  spontaneous, 
irregular  and  apparently  perpetual  movement  of 
microscopic  portions  of  solid  matter  when  immersed 
in  a  liquid  medium ;  such  movement  appearing  to  be 
explicable  only  as  the  result  of  the  motion  of  the 
molecules  of  which  the  liquid  in  question  is  built  up.  ^3 

"  W.  Ostwald  :  "  Faraday  Lecture,"  Journal  of  the  Chemical 
Society,  vol.  Ixxxv.  (1904),  pp.  506  et seq.  See  also  W.  Ostwald: 
The  Fundamental  Principles  of  Chemistry  (translated  by  H.  W. 
Morse,   1909),  especially  Chapters  VI.,  VII.  and  VIII. 

^3  For  an  account  of  this  singular  phenomenon,  see  Prof.  Jean 
Perrin  :  Brownian  Movement  and  Molecular  Reality  (translated 
from  the  Annates  de  Chimie  et  de  Physique,  8me  Series,  September, 
1909,  by  F.  Soddy,  M.A.,  F.R.S.,  1910). 


CHAPTER  VII 
MODERN   ALCHEMY 

§  85.  Correctly  speaking,  there  is  no  such  thing  as 
"Modern  Alchemy";  not  that  Mysticism  is  dead,  or 
that  men  no  longer  seek  to  apply  the 
Alchemy  "  principles  of  Mysticism  to  phenomena  on 
the  physical  plane,  but  they  do  so  after 
another  manner  from  that  of  the  alchemists.  A  new 
science,  however,  is  born  amongst  us,  closely  related 
on  the  one  hand  to  Chemistry,  on  the  other  to 
Physics,  but  dealing  with  changes  more  profound 
and  reactions  more  deeply  seated  than  are  dealt  with 
by  either  of  these ;  a  science  as  yet  without  a  name, 
unless  it  be  the  not  altogether  satisfactory  one  of 
*'  Radioactivity."  It  is  this  science,  or,  perhaps  we 
should  say,  a  certain  aspect  of  it,  to  which  we  refer 
(it  may  be  fantastically)  by  the  expression  "  Modern 
Alchemy":  the  aptness  of  the  title  we  hope  to  make 
plain  in  the  course  of  the  present  chapter. 

§  86.  As  is  commonly  known,  what  are  called 
X-rays  are  produced  when  an  electric  discharge  is 
passed  through  a  high- vacuum  tube.  It  has  been 
shown  that  these  rays  are  a  series  of  irregular 
pulses  in  the  ether,  which  are  set  up  when  the 
kathode  particles  strike  the  walls  of  the  glass  vacuum 

U7 


118  ALCHEMY  [§  87 

tube,'  and  It  was    found  that   more  powerful  effects 
can  be  produced  by  inserting  a  disc  of  platinum   in 

the  path  of  the  kathode  particles.     It  was 

X-rays  and     ]y[    Becquerel  who  first  discovered  that 

jg^yg^  there    are    substances     which    naturally 

emit  radiations  similar  to  X-rays.  He 
found  that  uranium  compounds  affected  a  photo- 
graphic plate  from  which  they  were  carefully  screened, 
and  he  also  showed  that  these  uranium  radiations, 
or  ''  Becquerel  rays,"  resemble  X-rays  in  other  par- 
ticulars. It  was  already  known  that  certain  substances 
fluoresce  (emit  light)  in  the  dark  after  having  been 
exposed  to  sunlight,  and  it  was  thought  at  first  that 
the  above  phenomenon  exhibited  by  uranium  salts 
was  of  a  like  nature,  since  certain  uranium  salts  are 
fluorescent ;  but  M.  Becquerel  found  that  uranium 
salts  which  had  never  been  exposed  to  sunlight  were 
still  capable  of  affecting  a  photographic  plate,  and 
that  this  remarkable  property  was  possessed  by  all 
uranium  salts,  whether  fluorescent  or  not.  This 
phenomenon  is  known  as  **  radioactivity,"  and  bodies 
which  exhibit  it  are  said  to  be  ''radioactive."  Schmidt 
found  that  thorium  compounds  possess  a  similar  pro- 
perty, and  Professor  Rutherford  showed  that  thorium 
compounds  evolved  also  something  resembling  a  gas. 
He  called  this  an  ''emanation." 

§  87.  Mme.  Curie  ^  determined  the  radioactivity  of 
many  uranium  and  thorium  compounds,  and  found 
that  there  was  a  proportion  between  the  radioactivity 

'  They  must  not  be  confused  with  the  greenish-yellow  phosphor- 
escence which  is  also  produced :  the  X-rays  are  invisible. 

""  See  Madame  Sklodowska  Curie's  Radio-active  Substances  (2nd 
ed.,  1904). 


§  88]  MODERN  ALCHEMY  119 

of  such  compounds  and  the  quantity  of  uranium  or 
thorium  in  them,  with  the  remarkable  exception  of 
certain  natural  ores,  which  had  a  radio- 
of  Radlum^^  activity  much  in  excess  of  the  normal,  and, 
indeed,  in  certain  cases,  much  greater 
than  pure  uranium.  In  order  to  throw  some  light 
on  this  matter^  Mme.  Curie  prepared  one  of  these 
ores  by  a  chemical  process  and  found  that  it  possessed 
a  normal  radioactivity.  The  only  logical  conclusion 
to  be  drawn  from  these  facts  was  that  the  ores  in 
question  must  contain  some  unknown,  highly  radio- 
active substance,  and  the  Curies  were  able,  after  very 
considerable  labour,  to  extract  from  pitchblende  (the 
ore  with  the  greatest  radioactivity)  minute  quanti- 
ties of  the  salts  of  two  new  elements — which  they 
named  *'  Polonium  "  and  ''  Radium  "  respectively — 
both  of  which  were  extremely  radioactive. 

M.  Debierne  has  obtained  a  third  radioactive 
substance  from  pitchblende,  which  he  has  called 
**  Actinium." 

§  88.  Radium   is   an   element   resembling  calcium, 

strontium,    and    barium    in    chemical    properties ;    its 

atomic  weight  was  determined  by  Mme. 

Chemical  Pro-  Curie,  and  found  to  be  about  22  s,  accord- 
perties  of       .  ,         ^  .  ^       , 

Radium.        ^^§  ^^  ^^^  ^^^^  experiments  ;  a  redeter- 
mination  gave   a   slightly  higher  value, 
which  has  been  confirmed  by  a  further  investigation 
carried  out  by  Sir  T.   E.  Thorpe. 3     Radium  gives  a 

3  See  Sir  T.  E.  Thorpe  :  '*  On  the  Atomic  Weight  of  Radium  " 
(Bakerian  Lecture  for  1907.  Delivered  before  the  Royal  Society, 
June  20,  1907),  Proceedings  of  the  Royal  Society  of  London^  vol.  Ixxx. 
pp.  298  et  seq. ;  reprinted  in  The  Chemical  News ^  vol.  xcvii.  pp.  229 
et  seq.  (May  15,  1908). 


120  ALCHEMY  [§  89 

characteristic  spectrum,  and  is  intensely  radioactive. 

It   should   be   noted   that   up  to   the   middle  of  the 

year  1910    the   element  radium   itself  had   not  been 

prepared ;  in  all  the  experiments  carried  out  radium 

salts  were  employed  {i.e.,  certain  compounds  of  radium 

with  other  elements),  generally  radium  chloride  and 

radium   bromide.      More    recently    Mme.    Curie,    in 

conjunction  with  M.  Debierne,  has  obtained  the  free 

metal.      It   is   described  as   a   white,    shining   metal 

resembling  the  other  alkaline  earth  metals.     It  reacts 

very  violently  with   water,    chars  paper  with   which 

it  is  allowed  to  come   in   contact,    and   blackens   in 

the    air,    probably    owing    to    the    formation    of    a 

nitride.     It  fuses  at  700°  C,  and  is  more  volatile  than 

barium.4 

§  89.  Radium  salts  give  off  three  distinct  sorts  of 

rays,  referred  to  by  the  Greek  letters  «,  ^,  7.     The 

a-rays  have    been   shown   to   consist  of 

The  Radio-     electrically    charged   (positive)  particles, 

activity  of         .,  ^  •    ^  1  w    .u  ! 

Radium.       ^^^"  ^  mass  approximately  equal  to  that 

of  four  hydrogen  atoms ;  they  are  slightly 
deviated  by  a  magnetic  field,  and  do  not  possess  great 
penetrative  power.  The  j3-rays  are  similar  to  the 
kathode  rays,  and  consist  of  (negative)  electrons  ;  they 
are  strongly  deviated  by  a  magnetic  field,  in  a  direc- 
tion opposite  to  that  in  which  the  a-particles  are 
deviated,  and  possess  medium  penetrative  power, 
passing  for  the  most  part  through  a  thin  sheet  of 
metal.     The  7-rays   resemble   X-rays;    they   possess 

4  Madame  P.  Curie  and  M.  A.  Debierne  :  **  Sur  le  radium 
metallique,"  Comptes  Rendus  hebdomadaires  des  Seances  PAcademie 
des  Sciences,  vol.  cli.  (1910),  pp.  523-525.  (For  an  English  trans- 
lation of  this  paper  see  The  Chemical  News,  vol.  cii.  p.  175.) 


§  89]  MODERN  ALCHEMY  121 

great  penetrative  power,  and  are  not  deviated  by  a 
magnetic  field.  The  difference  in  the  effect  of  the 
magnetic  field  on  these  rays,  and  the  difference  in 
their  penetrative  power,  led  to  their  detection  and 
allows  of  their  separate  examination.  Radium  salts 
emit  also  an  emanation,  which  tends  to  become 
occluded  in  the  solid  salt,  but  can  be  conveniently 
liberated  by  dissolving  the  salt  in  water,  or  by  heating 
it.  The  emanation  exhibits  the  characteristic  properties 
of  a  gas,  it  obeys  Boyle's  Law  (i.e.,  its  volume  varies 
inversely  with  its  pressure),  and  it  can  be  condensed  to 
a  liquid  at  low  temperatures  ;  its  density  as  determined 
by  the  diffusion  method  is  about  loo.  Attempts  to 
prepare  chemical  compounds  of  the  emanation  have 
failed,  and  in  this  respect  it  resembles  the  rare  gases 
of  the  atmosphere — helium,  neon,  argon,  krypton,  and 
xenon — whence  it  is  probable  that  its  molecules  are 
monatom.ic,  so  that  a  density  of  lOO  would  give  its 
atomic  weight  as  200. 5  As  can  be  seen  from  the 
table  on  pp.  106,  107,  an  atomic  weight  of  about  220 
corresponds  to  a  position  in  the  column  containing 
the  rare  gases  in  the  periodic  system.  That  the 
emanation  actually  has  an  atomic  weight  of  these 
dimensions  has  been  confirmed  by  further  experiments 
recently  carried  out  by  Sir  William  Ramsay  and  Dr. 
R.  W.  Gray.6  These  chemists  have  determined  the 
density  of  the  emanation  by  actually  weighing  minute 
quantities  of  known  volume  of  the  substance,  sealed 
up    in    small    capillary   tubes,    a    specially   sensitive 

5  This  follows  from  Avogadro's  Hypothesis,  see  §  76. 

^  Sir  William  Ramsay  and  Dr.  R.  W.  Gray  :  "  La  densite  de 
I'emanation  du  radium,"  Comptes  Rendus  hebdomadaires  des  Seances 
de  VAcadimie  des  Sciences^  vol.  cvi.  (1910),  pp.  126  et  seq. 


122  ALCHEMY  [§90 

balance  being  employed.  Values  for  the  density- 
varying  from  1 08  to  113J,  corresponding  to  values 
for  the  atomic  weight  varying  from  216  to  227,  were 
thereby  obtained.  Sir  William  Ramsay,  therefore, 
considers  that  there  can  no  longer  be  any  doubt 
that  the  emanation  is  one  of  the  elements  of  the 
group  of  chemically  inert  gases.  He  proposes  to 
call  it  Niton,  and,  for  reasons  which  we  shall  note 
later,  considers  that  in  all  probability  it  has  an  atomic 
weight  of  22 2 J. 

§  90.  Radium  salts  possess  another  very  remarkable 

property,  namely,  that  of  continuously  emitting  light 

and  heat.     It  seemed,  at  first,  that  here 

The  Disinte-    ^^g  ^  startling^  contradiction  to  the  law  of 
gration  of  the     .  .  r  i         1         i     1 

Radium  Atom,  the  conservation  of  energy,  but  the  whole 

mystery  becomes  comparatively  clear  in 
terms  of  the  corpuscular  or  the  electronic  theory  of 
matter.  The  radium-atom  is  a  system  of  a  large  num- 
ber (see  §  8 1 )  of  corpuscles  or  electrons,  and  contains  in 
virtue  of  their  motion  an  enormous  amount  of  energy. 
But  it  is  known  from  Chemistry  that  atomic  systems 
(i.e.,  molecules)  which  contain  very  much  energy  are 
unstable  and  liable  to  explode.  The  same  law  holds 
good  on  the  more  interior  plane — the  radium-atom  is 
liable  to,  and  actually  does,  explode.  And  the  result  ? 
Energy  is  set  free,  and  manifests  itself  partly  as  heat 
and  light.  Some  free  electrons  are  shot  off  (the /3-rays), 
which,  striking  the  undecomposed  particles  of  salt, 
give  rise  to  pulses  in  the  ether  (the  7-rays),7  just  as 
the  kathode  particles  give  rise  to  X-rays  when  they 

7  This  view  regarding  the  y-rays  is  not,  however,  universally 
accepted,  some  scientists  regarding  them  as  consisting  of  a  stream 
of  particles  moving  with  very  high  velocities. 


§92]  MODERN   ALCHEMY  123 

strike  the  walls  of  the  vacuum  tube  or  a  platinum  disc 
placed  in  their  path.  The  jS  and  y-rays  do  not,  how- 
ever, result  immediately  from  the  exploding  radium- 
atoms,  the  initial  products  being  the  emanation  and 
one  a-particle  from  each  radium-atom  destroyed. 

§  91.  Radium  salts  have  the  property  of  causing 

surrounding  objects  to  become  temporally  radioactive. 

This  '*  induced  radioactivity,"  as  it  may 

emanation,  which  is  itself  radioactive 
(it  emits  a-rays  only),  and  is  decomposed  into  minute 
traces  of  solid  radioactive  deposits.  By  examining 
the  rate  of  decay  of  the  activity  of  the  deposit,  it  has 
been  found  that  it  is  undergoing  a  series  of  sub-atomic 
changes,  the  products  being  termed  Radium  A,  B,  C, 
&c.  It  has  been  proved  that  all  the  /3  and  y-rays 
emitted  by  radium  salts  are  really  due  to  certain  of 
these  secondary  products.  Radium  F  is  thought  to  be 
identical  with  Polonium  (§  87).  Another  product  is 
also  obtained  by  these  decompositions,  with  which 
we  shall  deal  later  (§  94). 

§  92.  Uranium  and  thorium  differ  in  one  important 

respect  from  radium,  inasmuch  as  the  first  product  of 

the   decomposition   of  the  uranium   and 

Properties  of    thorium    atoms    is    in    both    cases    solid. 

Thorium.  ^^^  William  Crookes  ^  was  able  to  sepa- 
rate from  uranium  salts  by  chemical 
means  a  small  quantity  of  an  intensely  radioactive 
substance,  which  he  called  Uranium  X,  the  residual 
uranium  having   lost  most  of  its  activity ;     and   M. 

2  Sir  William  Crookes,  F.R.S.  :  "  Radio-activity  of  Uranium," 
Proceedings  of  the  Royal  Society  of  London^  vol.  Ixvi.  (1900),  pp.  409 
et  seq. 


124  ALCHEMY  [§  93 

Becquerel,  on  repeating  the  experiment,  found  that 
the  activity  of  the  residual  uranium  was  slowly  re- 
gained, whilst  that  of  the  uranium  X  decayed.  This 
is  most  simply  explained  by  the  theory  that  uranium 
first  changes  into  uranium  X.  It  has  been  suggested 
that  radium  may  be  the  final  product  of  the  breaking 
up  of  the  uranium-atom  ;  at  any  rate,  it  is  quite  certain 
that  radium  must  be  evolved  in  some  way,  as  other- 
wise there  would  be  none  in  existence — it  would  all 
have  decomposed.  This  suggestion  has  been  experi- 
mentally confirmed,  the  growth  of  radium  in  large 
quantities  of  a  solution  of  purified  uranyl  nitrate 
having  been  observed.  Uranium  gives  no  emanation. 
Thorium  probably  gives  at  least  three  solid  products 
— Meso-thorium,  Radio-thorium,  and  Thorium  X,  the 
last  of  which  yields  an  emanation  resembling  that 
obtained  from  radium,  but  not  identical  with  it. 

§  93.  We  must  now  more  fully  consider  the  radium 
emanation — a  substance  with   more   astounding  pro- 
perties than  even  the  radium  compounds 
EmanatioiT    themselves.     By  distilling  off  the  emana- 
tion   from    some    radium    bromide,    and 
measuring  the  quantities  of  heat  given    off   by  the 
emanation  and  the  radium  salt  respectively.  Professors 
Rutherford  and    Barnes  9  proved  that  nearly  three- 
fourths  of  the  total  amount  of  heat  given  out  by  a 
radium  salt  comes  from  the  minute  quantity  of  emana- 
tion that  it  contains.     The  amount  of  energy  liberated 
as  heat  during  the  decay  of  the  emanation  is  enor- 
mous;   one    cubic    centimetre    liberates    about    four 

9  E.  Rutherford,  F.R.S.,  and  H.  T.  Barnes,  D.Sc.  :  "  Heating 
Effect  of  the  Radium  Emanation,"  Philosophical  Magazine  [6], 
vol.  vii.  (1904),  pp.  202  et  seq. 


§  M]  MODERN  ALCHEMY  125 

million  times  as  much  heat  as  is  obtained  by  the 
combustion  of  an  equal  volume  of  hydrogen.  Un- 
doubtedly this  must  indicate  some  profound  change, 
and  one  may  well  ask,  What  is  the  ultimate  product 
of  the  decomposition  of  the  emanation  ? 

§  94.  It  had  been  observed  already  that  the  radio- 
active minerals  on  heating  give  off  Helium — a 
The  Produc-  ^^^^^^^  element,  characterised  by  a 
tion  of  particular  yellow  line  in  its  spectrum — 
Helium  from  and  it  seemed  not  unlikely  that  helium 
a  lum.  inighi-  be  ^\^q  ultimate  decomposition 
product  of  the  emanation.  A  research  to  settle 
this  point  was  undertaken  by  Sir  William  Ram- 
say and  Mr.  Soddy,^^  and  a  preliminary  experi- 
ment having  confirmed  the  above  speculation,  they 
carried  out  further  very  careful  experiments.  **The 
maximum  amount  of  the  emanation  obtained  from 
50  milligrams  of  radium  bromide  was  conveyed  by 
means  of  oxygen  into  a  U-tube  cooled  in  liquid  air, 
and  the  latter  was  then  extracted  by  the  pump." 
The  spectrum  was  observed  ;  it  **  was  apparently  a  new 
one,  probably  that  of  the  emanation  itself.  .  .  .  After 
standing  from  July  17  to  21  the  helium  spectrum 
appeared,  and  the  characteristic  lines  were  observed." 
Sir  William  Ramsay  performed  a  further  experi- 
ment with  a  similar  result,  in  which  the  radium  salt 
had  been  first  of  all  heated  in  a  vacuum  for  some 
time,  proving  that  the  helium  obtained  could  not 
have  been  occluded  in  it ;  though  the  fact  that  the 
helium  spectrum  did  not  immediately  appear,  in  itself 

"  Sir  William  Ramsay  and  Frederick  Soddy:  "Experiments 
in  Radioactivity  and  the  Production  of  Helium  from  Radium," 
Proceedings  of  the  Royal  Society  of  London^  vol.  Ixxii.  (1903), 
pp.  204  et  seq. 


126  ALCHEMY  [§  94 

proves  this  point.  Sir  William  Ramsay's  results  were 
confirmed  by  further  careful  experiments  by  Sir 
James  Dewar  and  other  chemists.  It  was  suggested, 
therefore,  that  the  a-particle  consists  of  an  electrically 
charged  helium-atom,  and  not  only  is  this  view  in 
agreement  with  the  value  of  the  mass  of  this  particle 
as  determined  experimentally,  but  it  has  been  com- 
pletely demonstrated  by  Professor  Rutherford  and  Mr. 
Royds.  These  chemists  performed  an  experiment  in 
which  the  emanation  from  about  one-seventh  of  a 
gramme  of  radium  was  enclosed  in  a  thin-walled  tube, 
through  the  walls  of  which  the  a-particles  could  pass, 
but  which  were  impervious  to  gases.  This  tube  was 
surrounded  by  an  outer  jacket,  which  was  evacuated. 
After  a  time  the  presence  of  helium  in  the  space 
between  the  inner  tube  and  the  outer  jacket  was 
observed  spectroscopically."  Now,  the  emanation- 
atom  results  from  the  radium-atom  by  the  expulsion 
of  one  a-particle  ;  and  since  this  latter  consists  of  an 
electrically  charged  helium-atom,  it  follows  that  the 
emanation  must  have  an  atomic  weight  of  226J-4,  i.e., 
22 2 J.  This  value  is  in  agreement  with  Sir  William 
Ramsay's  determination  of  the  density  of  the  emana- 
tion. We  may  represent  the  degradation  of  the 
radium-atom,  therefore,   by  the  following  scheme  : — 

^^  a-particle  (Helium-atom) 
Radium-atom"''^^'^  4 

226^         ^^  ^^^a-particle  (Helium-atom) 

^^  Emanation  (Niton-atom)-'^^  4 


222^ 


^-t^ 


Radium-A,  &c. 


"  E.  Rutherford,  F.R.S.,  and  T.  Royds,  M.Sc.  :  "The  Nature 
of  the  a-Particle  from  Radio-active  Substances,"  Philosophica 
Magazine  [6],  vol.  xvii.  (1909),  pp.  281  et  seq. 


§  95]  MODERN  ALCHEMY  127 

§  95.  Here,  then,  for  the  first  time  in  the  history  of 
Chemistry,  we  have  the  undoubted  formation  of  one 

chemical  element  from  another,  for, 
this  Change     ^^^.ving  out  of  the   question  the  nature 

of  the  emanation,  there  can  be  no  doubt 
that  radium  is  a  chemical  element.  This  is  a  point 
which  must  be  insisted  upon,  for  it  has  been  sug- 
gested that  radium  may  be  a  compound  of  helium 
with  some  unknown  element ;  or,  perhaps,  a  com- 
pound of  helium  with  lead,  since  it  has  been  thought 
that  lead  may  be  one  of  the  end  products  of  the 
decomposition  of  radium.  The  following  considera- 
tions, however,  show  this  view  to  be  altogether 
untenable :  (i.)  All  attempts  to  prepare  compounds  of 
helium  with  other  elements  have  failed,  (ii.)  Radium 
possesses  all  the  properties  of  a  chemical  element ;  it 
has  a  characteristic  spectrum,  and  falls  in  that  column 
in  the  Periodic  Table  with  those  elements  which  it 
resembles  as  to  its  chemical  properties.  (iii.)  The 
quantity  of  heat  liberated  on  the  decomposition  of  the 
emanation  is,  as  we  have  already  indicated,  out  of  all 
proportion  to  that  obtained  even  in  the  most  violent 
chemical  reactions  ;  and  (iv.)  one  very  important  fact 
has  been  observed  by  some  investigators,  though  it  has 
been  denied  by  others,  namely,  that  the  rate  of  decay 
of  the  emanation  is  unaffected  by  even  extreme  changes 
of  temperature,  whereas  chemical  actions  are  always 
affected  in  rate  by  changes  of  temperature.  It  will 
also  be  advisable,  perhaps,  to  indicate  some  of  the 
differences  between  helium  and  the  emanation.  The 
latter  is  a  heavy  gas,  condensable  to  a  liquid  by  liquid 
air  (recently  it  has  been  solidified  ^^) ;  whereas  helium 
"  By  Ramsay.  See  Froc.  Ckem,  Soc,  vol.  xxv.  (1909),  pp.  82  and  83. 


128  ALCHEMY  [§  96 

is  the  lightest  of  all  known  gases  with  the  exception 
of  hydrogen  and  has  been  liquefied  only  by  the  most 
persistent  effort.'^  The  emanation,  moreover,  is  radio- 
active, giving  off  a-particles,  whereas  helium  does  not 
possess  this  property. 

§  96.  It  has  been  pointed  out,  however,  that  (in  a 
sense)  this  change  (viz.,  of  emanation  into  helium)  is 

Is  this         ^^^  quite  what  has  been  meant  by  the 

Change  a       expression    "  transmutation    of    the   ele- 

true  Trans-     ments " ;    for    the    reason   that   it    is    a 
mutation?         .      ,  ,  cc    4.      c 

spontaneous    change ;    no    effort  of   ours 

can  bring  it  about  or  cause  it  to  cease.''*  But  the 
fact  of  the  change  does  go  to  prove  that  the  chemical 
elements  are  not  the  discrete  units  of  matter  that 
they  were  supposed  to  be.  And  since  it  appears 
that  all  matter  is  radioactive,  although  (save  in  these 
exceptional  cases)  in  a  very  slight  degree,  ^5  we  here 
have  evidence  of  a  process  of  evolution  at  work 
among  the  chemical  elements.  The  chemical  elements 
are  not  permanent ;  they  are  all  undergoing  change ; 
and  the  common  elements  merely  mark  those  points 
where  the  rate  of  the  evolutionary  process  is  at  its 
slowest.  (See  also  §§78  and  83.)  Thus,  the  essen- 
tial truth  in  the  old  alchemistic  doctrine  of  the  growth 
of  metals  is  vindicated,  for  the  metals  do  grow  in  the 
womb  of  Nature,   although  the  process  may  be  far 

^3  By  Professor  Onnes.  See  Chemical  News,  vol.  xcviii.  p.  37 
(July  24,  1908). 

H  See  Professor  H.  C.  Jones  :  The  Electrical  Nature  of  Matter 
and  Radioactivity  (1906),  pp.  125-126. 

'5  It  has  been  definitely  proved,  for  example,  that  the  common 
element  potassium  is  radioactive,  though  very  feebly  so  (it  emits 
/3-rays).  It  is  also  interesting  to  note  that  many  common  substances 
emit  corpuscles  at  high  temperatures. 


§96]  MODERN   ALCHEMY  129 

slower  than  appears  to  have  been  imagined  by  certain 
of  the  alchemists, '6  and  although  gold  may  not  be  the 
end  product.  As  writes  Professor  Sir  W.  Tilden  : 
** .  .  .  It  appears  that  modern  ideas  as  to  the  genesis 
of  the  elements,  and  hence  of  all  matter,  stand  in 
strong  contrast  with  those  which  chiefly  prevailed 
among  experimental  philosophers  from  the  time  of 
Newton,  and  seem  to  reflect  in  an  altered  form  the 
speculative  views  of  the  ancients."  " .  .  .  It  seems 
probable,"  he  adds,  "  that  the  chemical  elements,  and 
hence  all  material  substances  of  which  the  earth,  the 
sea,  the  air,  and  the  host  of  heavenly  bodies  are  all 
composed,  resulted  from  a  change,  corresponding  to 
condensation,  in  something  of  which  we  have  no 
direct  and  intimate  knowledge.  Some  have  imagined 
this  primal  essence  of  all  things  to  be  identical  with 
the  ether  of  space.  As  yet  we  know  nothing  with 
certainty,  but  it  is  thought  that  by  means  of  the  spec- 
troscope some  stages  of  the  operation  may  be  seen  in 
progress  in  the  nebulae  and  stars.  .  .  ."  ^^     We  have 

**'  Says  Peter  Bonus,  however,  "...  we  know  that  the  genera- 
tion of  metals  occupies  thousands  of  years  ...  in  Nature's 
workshop  ..."  (see  The  New  Pearl  of  Great  Price^  Mr.  A.  E. 
Waite's  translation,  p.  55),  and  certain  others  of  the  alchemists 
expressed  a  similar  view. 

'^  Sir  William  A.  Tilden  :  The  Elements  :  Speculations  as  to  their 
Nature  and  Origin  (1910),  pp.  108,  109,  133  and  134.  With 
regard  to  Sir  William  Tilden's  remarks,  it  is  very  interesting  to  note 
that  Swedenborg  (who  was  born  when  Newton  was  between  forty 
and  fifty  years  old)  not  only  differed  from  that  great  philosopher  on 
those  very  points  on  which  modern  scientific  philosophy  is  at 
variance  with  Newton,  but,  as  is  now  recognised  by  scientific  men, 
anticipated  many  modern  discoveries  and  scientific  theories.  It 
would  be  a  most  interesting  task  to  set  forth  the  agreement  existing 
between  Swedenborg's  theories  and  the  latest  products  of  scientific 

10 


130  ALCHEMY  [§  97 

next  to  consider  whether  there  is  any  experimental 
evidence  showing  it  to  be  possible  (using  the  phrase- 
ology of  the  alchemists)  for  man  to  assist  in  Nature's 
work. 

§  97.  As  we  have  already  indicated  above  (§  93), 

the  radium  emanation  contains  a  vast  store  of  poten- 

,         _       tial  energy,  and  it  was  with  the  idea  of 

duction  of      utilising  this  energy  for  bringing  about 

Neon  from     chemical     changes      that     Sir     William 

mana  ion.  R^jYigay  ^^  undertook  a  research  on 
the  chemical  action  of  this  substance — a  research 
with  the  most  surprising  and  the  most  important 
results,  for  the  energy  contained  within  the  radium 
emanation  appeared  to  behave  like  a  veritable 
Philosopher's  Stone.  The  first  experiments  were 
carried  out  on  distilled  water.  It  had  already  been 
observed  that  the  emanation  decomposes  water  into 
its  gaseous  elements,  oxygen  and  hydrogen,  and 
that  the  latter  is  always  produced  in  excess.  These 
results  were  confirmed  and  the  presence  of  hydrogen 
peroxide  was  detected,  explaining  the  formation  of  an 
excess  of  hydrogen  ;  it  was  also  shown  that  the 
emanation  brings  about  the  reverse  change  to  some 
extent,  causing  oxygen  and  hydrogen  to  unite  with  the 
production  of  water,  until  a  position  of  equilibrium  is 

thought  concerning  the  nature  of  the  physical  universe.  Such, 
however,  would  lie  without  the  confines  of  the  present  work. 

'^  Sir  William  Ramsay  :  "  The  Chemical  Action  of  the  Radium 
Emanation.  Pt.  I.,  Action  on  Distilled  Water,"  Journal  of  the 
Chemical  Society^  vol.  xci.  (1907),  pp.  931  et  seq.  Alexander  T. 
Cameron  and  Sir  William  Ramsay,  ibid.  "  Pt.  IL,  On  Solutions 
containing  Copper,  and  Lead,  and  on  Water,"  ibid.  pp.  1593  et  seq. 
"Pt.  III.,  On  Water  and  Certain  Gases,"  ibid.  vol.  xciii.  (1908), 
pp.  966  et  seq.     "  Pt.  IV.,  On  Water,"  ibid.  pp.  992  et  seq. 


§  97]  MODERN  ALCHEMY  131 

attained.  On  examining  spectroscopically  the  gas 
obtained  by  the  action  of  the  emanation  on  water, 
after  the  removal  of  the  ordinary  gases,  a  most  sur- 
prising resuh  was  observed — the  gas  showed  a  brilliant 
spectrum  of  neon,  accompanied  with  some  faint  helium 
lines.  A  more  careful  experiment  was  carried  out 
later  by  Sir  William  Ramsay  and  Mr.  Cameron,  in 
which  a  silica  bulb  was  employed  instead  of  glass. 
The  spectrum  of  the  residual  gas  after  removing 
ordinary  gases  was  successfully  photographed,  and  a 
large  number  of  the  neon  lines  identified  ;  helium  was 
also  present.  The  presence  of  neon  could  not  be 
explained,  in  Ramsay's  opinion,  by  leakage  of  air  into 
the  apparatus,  as  the  percentage  of  neon  in  the  air  is 
not  sufficiently  high,  whereas  this  suggestion  might  be 
put  forward  in  the  case  of  argon.  Moreover,  the  neon 
could  not  have  come  from  the  aluminium  of  the  elec- 
trodes (in  which  it  might  be  thought  to  have  been 
occluded),  as  the  sparking  tube  had  been  used  and 
tested  before  the  experiment  was  carried  out.  The 
authors  conclude  :  "  We  must  regard  the  transforma- 
tion of  emanation  into  neon,  in  presence  of  water,  as 
indisputably  proved,  and,  if  a  transmutation  be  defined 
as  a  transformation  brought  about  at  will,  by  change 
of  conditions,  then  this  is  the  first  case  of  transmuta- 
tion of  which  conclusive  evidence  is  put  forward!'  ^9 
However,  Professor  Rutherford  and  Mr.  Royds  have 
been  unable  to  confirm  this  result.  They  describe  ^o 
attempts  to  obtain  neon  by  the  action  of  emanation 

^"^  Journal  of  the  Chemical  Society^  vol.  xciii.  (1908),  p.  997. 

=^°  E.  Rutherford,  F.R.S.,  and  T.  Royds,  M.Sc.  :  "The  Action 
of  Radium  Emanation  on  Water,"  Philosophical  Magazine  [6], 
vol.  xvi.  (1908),  pp.  Z\2  et  seq. 


132  ALCHEMY  [§  98 

on  water.  Out  of  five  experiments  no  neon  was 
obtained,  save  in  one  case  in  which  a  small  air  leak 
was  discovered  ;  and,  since  the  authors  find  that  very 
minute  quantities  of  this  gas  are  sufficient  to  give  a 
clearly  visible  spectrum,  they  conclude  that  Ramsay's 
positive  results  are  due,  after  all,  to  leakage  of  air  into 
the  apparatus.  But  if  this  explanation  be  accepted  it 
is  difficult  to  understand  why  the  presence  of  neon 
should  be  observed  in  the  experiments  with  water, 
and  argon  in  the  experiments  with  copper  solutions 
(see  below,  §  98).  We  are  inclined,  therefore,  to 
accept  Sir  William  Ramsay's  results,  but  it  is  quite 
evident  that  further  experiments  are  necessary  to 
settle  the  question  indisputably. 

§  98.  The  fact  that  an  excess  of  hydrogen  was  pro- 
duced when  water  was  decomposed  by  the  emanation 
suggested   to    Sir  William    Ramsay  and 
Ramsay's       jyjj.    Cameron   that    if  a   solution   of    a 
Experiments  n-  1  1         1    •        1  r 

on  Copper,      nietallic   salt    was   employed  m  place  ot 

pure  water,  the  free  metal  might  be 
obtained.  These  "  modern  alchemists,"  therefore, 
proceeded  to  investigate  the  action  of  radium  emana- 
tion on  solutions  of  copper  and  lead  salts,  and  again 
apparently  effected  transmutations.  They  found  on 
removing  the  copper  from  a  solution  of  a  copper-salt 
which  had  been  subjected  to  the  action  of  the  emana- 
tion, and  spectroscopically  examining  the  residue,  that 
a  considerable  quantity  of  sodium  was  present,  together 
with  traces  of  lithium ;  and  the  gas  evolved  in  the 
case  of  a  solution  of  copper  nitrate  contained,  along 
with  much  nitric  oxide  and  a  little  nitrogen,  argon 
(which  was  detected  spectroscopically),  but  no  helium. 
It    certainly   seemed    like   a   dual   transformation   of 


§98]  MODERN  ALCHEMY  133 

copper  into  lithium  and  sodium,  and  emanation  into 
argon.  They  also  observed  that  apparently  carbon- 
dioxide  is  continually  evolved  from  an  acid  solution  of 
thorium  nitrate  (see  below,  §  loo).  It  is  worth  while 
noticing  that  helium,  neon  and  argon  occur  in  the 
same  column  in  the  Periodic  Table  with  emanation  ; 
lithium  and  sodium  with  copper,  and  carbon  with 
thorium  ;  in  each  case  the  elements  produced  being  of 
lighter  atomic  weight  than  those  decomposed.^i  The 
authors  make  the  following  suggestions:  "(i)  That 
helium  and  the  a-particle  are  not  identical ;  (2)  that 
helium  results  from  the  '  degradation  '  of  the  large 
molecule  of  emanation  by  its  bombardment  with 
a-partlcles ;  (3)  that  this  *  degradation,'  when  the 
emanation  is  alone  or  mixed  with  oxygen  and 
hydrogen,  results  in  the  lowest  member  of  the  inactive 
series,  namely,  helium  ;  (4)  that  if  particles  of  greater 
mass  than  hydrogen  or  oxygen  are  associated  with  the 
emanation,  namely,  liquid  water,  then  the  *  degrada- 
tion' of  the  emanation  is  less  complete,  and  neon  is 
produced  ;  (5)  that  when  molecules  of  still  greater 
weight  and  complexity  are  present,  as  is  the  case 
when  the  emanation  is  dissolved  in  a  solution  of 
copper  sulphate,  the  product  of  '  degradation  '  of  the 
emanation  is  argon.  We  are  inclined  to  believe  too 
[they  say]  that  (6)  the  copper  also  is  involved  in  this 
process  of  degradation,  and  is  reduced  to  the  lowest 
term  of  its  series,  namely,  lithium  ;  and  at  the  same 
time,  inasmuch  as  the  weight  of  the  residue  of  alkali, 
produced  when  copper  nitrate  is  present,  is  double 
that  obtained  from  the  blank  experiment,  or  from 
water  alone,  the  supposition  is  not  excluded  that  the 
"  See  pp.  106,  107. 


134  ALCHEMY  [§  100 

chief    product    of    the    *  degradation  *   of    copper    is 
sodium."  " 

§  99.    More   recently    Madame   Curie   and    Made- 
moiselle   Gleditsch^^   have    repeated    Cameron    and 
Further        Ramsay's   experiments  on   copper  salts, 
Experiments    using,     however,      platinum     apparatus, 
on  Radium     They    failed  to  detect  lithium  after   the 
opper.     ^^^[q^     of    ^Y^Q    emanation,    and    think 
that    Cameron    and    Ramsay's    results    may    be   due 
to  the  glass  vessels  employed.     Dr.  Perman  """^  recently 
investigated  the  direct   action    of  the  emanation   on 
copper  and  gold,    and   failed  to  detect  any  trace  of 
lithium.     The   transmutation  of  copper  into  lithium, 
therefore,  must  be  regarded  as  unproved,  but  further 
research  is  necessary  before  any  conclusive  statements 
can  be  made  on  the  subject. 

§  100.  In  his  presidential  address  to  the  Chemical 
Bamsay'sEx-    Society,   March   25,    1909,    after   having 
periments  on    brought    forward    some    exceedingly    in- 
Thorium  and    teresting  arguments  for  the  possibility  of 
transmutation,  Sir  William  Ramsay  de- 
scribed some  experiments  which  he  had  carried  out  on 

"  Journal  of  the  Chemical  Society^  vol.  xci.  (1907),  pp.  1605-1606. 
More  recent  experiments,  however,  have  proved  that  the  a-particle  does 
consist  of  an  electrically  charged  helium-atom,  and  this  view  is  now 
accepted  by  Sir  William  Ramsay,  so  that  the  above  suggestions 
must  be  modified  in  accordance  therewith.     (See  §§89  and  94.) 

^3  Madame  Curie  and  Mademoiselle  Gleditsch:  "Action  de 
I'emanation  du  radium  sur  les  solutions  des  sels  de  cuivre," 
Comptes  Rend^is  hebdomadaires  des  Siances  de  PAcademie  des  Sciences, 
vol.  cxlvii.  (1908),  pp.  345  ef  seq.  (For  an  English  translation  of 
this  paper,  see  The  Chemical  News,  vol.  xcviii.  pp.  157  and  158.) 

""^  Edgar  Philip  Perman  :  "  The  Direct  Action  of  Radium  on 
Copper  and  Gold,"  Proceedings  of  the  Chemical  Society,  vol.  xxiv. 
(1908),  p.  214. 


§  100]  MODERN   ALCHEMY  135 

thorium  and  allied  elements.^^  It  was  found,  as  we 
have  already  stated  (§  98),  that,  apparently,  carbon- 
dioxide  was  continually  evolved  from  an  acid  solution 
of  thorium  nitrate,  precautions  being  taken  that  the 
gas  was  not  produced  from  the  grease  on  the  stop- 
cock employed,  and  it  also  appeared  that  carbon- 
dioxide  was  produced  by  the  action  of  radium 
emanation  on  thorium  nitrate.  The  action  of 
radium  emanation  on  compounds  (not  containing 
carbon)  of  other  members  of  the  carbon  group, 
namely,  silicon,  zirconium  and  lead,  was  then  inves- 
tigated ;  in  the  cases  of  zirconium  nitrate  and  hydro- 
fluosilicic  acid,  carbon-dioxide  was  obtained  ;  but  in 
the  case  of  lead  chlorate  the  amount  of  carbon  dioxide 
was  quite  insignificant.  Curiously  enough,  the  per- 
chlorate  of  bismuth,  a  metal  which  belongs  to  the 
nitrogen  group  of  elements,  also  yielded  carbon- 
dioxide  when  acted  on  by  emanation.  Sir  William 
Ramsay  concludes  his  discussion  of  these  experiments 
as  follows :  *'  Such  are  the  facts.  No  one  is  better 
aware  than  I  how  insufficient  the  proof  is.  Many 
other  experiments  must  be  made  before  it  can  con- 
fidently be  asserted  that  certain  elements,  when 
exposed  to  'concentrated  energy,'  undergo  degrada- 
tion into  carbon."  Some  such  confirmatory  experi- 
ments have  already  been  carried  out  by  Sir  William 
Ramsay  and  Mr.  Francis  L.  Usher,  who  also 
describe  an  experiment  with  a  compound  of  titanium. 
Their  results  confirm  Sir  William  Ramsay's  former 
experiments.  Carbon-dioxide  was  obtained  in  appre- 
ciable quantities  by  the  action  of  emanation  on  com- 

'^  Sir  William  Ramsay:  "Elements  and  'ElQcirons"  Journal  of 
the  Chemical  Society^  vol.  xcv.  (1909),  pp.  624  ^^  seq. 


\ 

136  ALCHEMY  [§  102 

pounds  of  silicon,  titanium,  zirconium  and  thorium. 
In  the  case  of  lead,  the  amount  of  carbon  dioxide 
obtained  was  inappreciable.^^ 

§  101.  It  does  not  seem  unlikely  that  if  it  is  pos- 
sible to  "  degrade "  elements,  it  may  be  possible  to 
build  them  up.     It  has  been  suggested 
The  Pos-       ^Y^^^  j|.  n^igrht  be  possible  to  obtain,   in 
sibilityof        ,  .  u   r  -i  •  u 

Making  Gold.    ^"^^  ^^Jy   gold  from   silver,  smce  these 

two  elements  occur  in  the  same  column 
in  the  Periodic  Table ;  but  the  suggestion  still  awaits 
experimental  confirmation.  The  question  arises. 
What  would  be  the  result  if  gold  could  be  cheaply 
produced  ?  That  gold  is  a  metal  admirably  adapted 
for  many  purposes,  for  which  its  scarcity  prevents  its 
use,  must  be  admitted.  But  the  financial  chaos  which 
would  follow  if  it  were  to  be  cheaply  obtained  sur- 
passes the  ordinary  imagination.  It  is  a  theme  that 
ought  to  appeal  to  a  novelist  of  exceptional  imagina- 
tive power.  However,  we  need  not  fear  these  results, 
for  not  only  is  radium  extremely  rare,  far  dearer  than 
gold,  and  on  account  of  its  instability  will  never  be 
obtained  in  large  quantities,  but,  judging  from  the 
above-described  experiments,  if,  indeed,  the  radium 
emanation  is  the  true  Philosopher's  Stone,  the  quan- 
tity of  gold  that  may  be  hoped  for  by  its  aid  is 
extremely  small. 

§  102.  A  very  suggestive  argument  for  the  trans- 
mutation of  the  metals  was  put  forward  by  Professor 
Henry  M.  Howe,  LL.D.,  in  a  paper  entitled  "  Allo- 
tropy  or  Transmutation?"  read  before  the  British 
Association    (Section    B),    Sheffield    Meeting,    1910. 

^^  For  a  brief  account  in  English  of  these  later  experiments  see 
T/ie  Chemical  News^  vol.  c.  p.  209  (October  29,  1909). 


§  102]  MODERN   ALCHEMY  137 

Certain  substances  are  known  which,  although  differ- 
ing in  their  physical  properties  very  markedly,  behave 
chemically  as  if  they  were  one  and  the 

The  Big-       same  element,  fifivinsf  rise  to  the   same 
nificance  of  .  -  ,011 

*' AUotropy."    series  of  compounds,     buch  substances, 

of  which  we  may  mention  diamond, 
graphite  and  charcoal  (^.^.,  lampblack) — all  of 
which  are  known  chemically  as  ** carbon" — or,  to 
take  another  example,  yellow  phosphorus  (a  yellow, 
waxy,  highly  inflammable  solid)  and  red  phosphorus 
(a  difficultly-inflammable,  dark  red  substance,  probably 
possessing  a  minutely  crystalline  structure),  are,  more- 
over, convertible  one  into  the  other.^^  It  has  been 
customary  to  refer  to  such  substances  as  different 
forms  or  allotropic  modifications  of  the  same  element, 
and  not  to  regard  them  as  being  different  elements. 
As  Professor  Howe  says,  "If  after  defining  ' ele- 
ments'  as  substances  hitherto  indivisible,  and  dif- 
ferent elements  as  those  which  differ  in  at  least  some 
one  property,  and  after  asserting  that  the  elements 
cannot  be  transmuted  into  each  other,  we  are  con- 
fronted with  the  change  from  diamond  into  lamp- 
black, and  with  the  facts,  first,  that  each   is  clearly 

^7  Diamond  is  transformed  into  graphite  when  heated  by  a 
powerful  electric  current  between  carbon  poles,  and  both  diamond 
and  graphite  can  be  indirectly  converted  into  charcoal.  The  arti- 
ficial production  of  the  diamond,  however,  is  a  more  difficult 
process;  but  the  late  Professor  Moissan  succeeded  in  effecting 
it,  so  far  as  very  small  diamonds  are  concerned,  by  dissolving 
charcoal  in  molten  iron  or  silver  and  allowing  it  to  crystallise  from 
the  solution  under  high  pressure.  Graphite  was  also  obtained. 
Red  phosphorus  is  produced  from  yellow  phosphorus  by  heating 
the  latter  in  absence  of  air.  The  temperature  240-250°  C.  is  the 
most  suitable;  at  higher  temperatures  the  reverse  change  sets  in, 
red  phosphorus  being  converted  into  yellow  phosphorus. 


138  ALCHEMY  [§  102 

indivisible  hitherto  and  hence  an  element,  and,  second, 
that  they  differ  in  every  property,  we  try  to  escape 
in  a  circle  by  saying  that  they  are  not  different 
elements  because  they  do  change  into  each  other. 
In  short,  we  limit  the  name  'element'  to  indivisible 
substances  which  cannot  be  transmuted  into  each 
other,  and  we  define  those  which  do  transmute  as 
ipso  facto  one  element,  and  then  we  say  that  the 
elements  cannot  be  transmuted.  Is  not  this  very 
like  saying  that,  if  you  call  a  calf's  tail  a  leg,  then 
a  calf  has  five  legs  ?  And  if  it  is  just  to  reply  that 
calling  a  tail  a  leg  does  not  make  it  a  leg,  is  it  not 
equally  just  to  reply  that  calling  two  transmutable 
elements  one  element  does  not  make  them  so  ? 

**  Is  it  philosophical  to  point  to  the  fact  that  two 
such  transmutable  elements  yield  but  a  single  line 
of  derivatives  as  proof  that  they  are  one  element.** 
Is  not  this  rather  proof  of  the  readiness,  indeed 
irresistibleness,  of  their  transmutation  ?  Does  not 
this  simply  mean  that  the  derivativeless  element, 
whenever  it  enters  into  combination,  inevitably 
transmutes  into  its  mate  which  has  derivatives  ?  "  ^8 

According  to  the  atomic  theory  the  differences 
between  what  are  termed  "  allotropic  modifications  *' 
are  generally  ascribed  to  differences  in  the  number 
and  arrangement  of  the  atoms  constituting  the  mole- 
cules of  such  "modifications,"  and  not  to  any  dif- 
ferences in  the  atoms  themselves.  But  we  cannot 
argue  that  two  such  "allotropic  modifications"  or 
elements    which   are    transmutable   into  one   another 

*^  Professor  Henry  M.  Howe,  LL.D.  :  "Allotropy  or  Trans- 
mutation." (See  The  Chemical  News^  vol.  cii.  pp.  153  and  154, 
September  23,  19 10.) 


§  102]  MODERN   ALCHEMY  139 

are  one  and  the  same  element,  because  they  possess 
the  same  atomic  weight,  and  different  elements  are 
distinguished  by  different  atomic  weights ;  for  the 
reason  that,  in  the  determination  of  atomic  weights, 
derivatives  of  such  bodies  are  employed ;  hence,  the 
value  obtained  is  the  atomic  weight  of  the  element 
which  forms  derivatives,  from  which  that  of  its 
derivativeless  mate  may  differ  considerably  for  all 
we  know  to  the  contrary,  if  we  do,  indeed,  regard 
the  atomic  weights  of  the  elements  as  having  any 
meaning  beyond  expressing  the  inertia-ratios  in 
which  they  combine  one  with  another. 

If  we  wish  to  distinguish  between  two  such  "allo- 
tropic  modifications  "  apart  from  any  theoretical  views 
concerning  the  nature  and  constitution  of  matter, 
we  can  say  that  such  *' modifications "  are  different 
because  equal  weights  of  them  contain,  or  are  equiva- 
lent to,  different  quantities  of  energy,"*^  since  the 
change  of  one  "  form "  to  another  takes  place  only 
with  the  evolution  or  absorption  (as  the  case  may  be) 
of  heat. 30  But,  according  to  modern  views  regard- 
ing the  nature  of  matter,  this  is  the  sole  fundamental 

^'  For  a  defence  of  the  view  that  chemical  substances  may  be 
regarded  as  energy-complexes,  and  that  this  view  is  equally  as  valid 
as  the  older  notion  of  a  chemical  substance  as  an  inertia-complex, 
i.e.^  as  something  made  up  entirely  of  different  units  or  atoms  each 
characterised  by  the  possession  of  a  definite  and  constant  weight 
at  a  fixed  point  on  the  earth's  surface,  see  an  article  by  the  present 
writer,  entitled  "The  Claims  of  Thermochemistry,"  Knowledge  and 
Scientific  News,  vol.  vii.  (New  Series),  pp.  227  et  seq.  (July,  19 10). 

3°  In  some  cases  the  heat  change  accompanying  the  transforma- 
tion of  an  element  into  an  "  allotropic  modication  "  can  be  measured 
directly.  More  frequently,  however,  it  is  calculated  as  the  difference 
between  the  quantities  of  heat  obtained  when  the  two  "forms" 
are  converted  into  one  and  the  same  compound. 


140  ALCHEMY  [§  103 

difference  between  two  different  elements — such  are 
different  because  equal  weights  of  them  contain  or 
are  equivalent  to  different  quantities  of  energy.  The 
so-called  "allotropic  modifications  of  an  element,'* 
therefore,  are  just  as  much  different  elements  as 
any  other  different  elements,  and  the  change  from 
one  **  modification "  to  another  is  a  true  transmuta- 
tion of  the  elements ;  the  only  distinction  being  that 
what  are  called  ''allotropic  modifications  of  the  same 
element "  differ  only  slightly  in  respect  of  the  energy 
they  contain,  and  hence  are  comparatively  easy  to 
convert  one  into  the  other,  whereas  different  elements 
(so  called)  differ  very  greatly  from  one  another  in  this 
respect,  whence  it  is  to  be  concluded  that  the  trans- 
mutation of  one  such  element  into  another  will  only 
be  attained  by  the  utilisation  of  energy  in  a  very 
highly  concentrated  form,  such  as  is  evolved  simul- 
taneously with  the  spontaneous  decomposition  of  the 
radium  emanation.  That  this  highly  concentrated 
form  of  energy  does  result  in  effecting  the  same 
appears  to  be  indicated  by  Sir  William  Ramsay's 
experiments. 

§  103.  We  have  shown  that  modern  science  indi- 
cates the  essential  truth  of  alchemistic  doctrine,  and 

our  task   is   ended.     We   can    conclude 
Conclusion.      .  ,  i  i  ^• 

m     no    better    way    than     by    quotmg 

these  words  of  the  greatest  "modern  alchemist": 
"If  these  hypotheses  [concerning  the  possibility 
of  causing  the  atoms  of  ordinary  elements  to 
absorb  energy]  are  just,"  said  Sir  William  Ramsay 
in  1904,  "then  the  transmutations  of  the  ele- 
ments no  longer  appears  an  idle  dream.  The 
philosopher's  stone  will  have  been   discovered,   and 


§  103]  MODERN  ALCHEMY  141 

it  is  not  beyond  the  bounds  of  possibility  that  it  may 
lead  to  that  other  goal  of  the  philosophers  of  the 
dark  ages — the  elixir  vitcs.  For  the  action  of  living 
cells  is  also  dependent  on  the  nature  and  direction 
of  the  energy  which  they  contain ;  and  who  can  say 
that  it  will  be  impossible  to  control  their  action,  when 
the  means  of  imparting  and  controlling  energy  shall 
have  been  investigated  ?  "  3i  This  was  said  before 
his  remarkable  experiments  which  appear  to  indicate 
that  he  has  discovered  the  Philosopher's  Stone ;  and 
it  is  worth  noticing  how  many  of  the  alchemists' 
obscure  descriptions  of  their  Magistery  well  apply 
to  that  marvellous  something  which  we  call  Energy, 
the  true  **  First  Matter"  of  the  Universe.  And  of 
the  other  problem,  the  Elixir  Vitce,  Who  knows? 

3'  Sir  William  Ramsay  :  "  Radium  and  its  Products,"  Harper's 
Magazine  (December,  1904),  vol.  xlix.  (European  Edition),  p.  57. 


THE    END. 


Ube  (3resbam  press* 

UNWIN  BROTHERS,  LIMITED, 
WOEING  AND  LONDON. 


''6  " 


THIS   BOOK   IS   DUE  ON   THE   LAST   DATE 
STAMPED   BELOW 


BOOKS   REQUESTED  BY  ANOTHER  BORROWER 
ARE  SUBJECT  TO   IMMEDIATE   RECALL 


NOV  2  0)99 
RECEIVE 


NOV  21  ia 

PHYS  SCI  LIBRARY 


JAN  0  8  1992 
RECEIVED 


ph: 


0£C  12^^ 
Physical  SdSrces 

DEC  1  2  1992^L 
RECEIVED 

DEO  0]^^; 

PHYS  SCI  LIBRARY 


101993 


WED 
1993 

SICALSCS.UBRARV 


LIBRARY,   UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA,  DAVIS 

Book  Slip-Series  458 


3  1175  00488  1325 


Call  Number: 


256265 

Alchemy 
"modern. 


ancient  ahd 


m 


256265 

QD13 

Redgrove, 

H.S. 

R4 

Alchemy J 

ancient 

and 

modem. 

PHYSICAL 

SCIENCES 

LIBRARY 

LI  BR  ARY 

UNIVERSITY    OF    CALIFORNIA 

DAVIS 

