"This compendium 
captures the incredibly 
rich artistic tradition 
of alchemy, from 
medieval woodcuts 

to the illustrations of 
William Blake.” 


SEATTLEWEEKLY 


Wea hle eee! 


HAG" 549565 


ALEXANDER 
ROOB 


= 
me 
Y 
= 
GQ 
—Y 
= 


Wnasnw DILAWAAH AHL 


®KWAHOTV 


TASCHEN 


Bibliotheca Universalis 


A fantastic journey through 
the history of esoteric lore 


The Hermetic Museum takes its readers on a magical 
mystery tour spanning an arc from the mediaeval 
cosmogram and images of Christian mysticism, 
through the fascinating world of alchemy to the art 
of the Romantic era. The enigmatic hieroglyphs of 
cabbalists, Rosicrucians and freemasons are shown 
to be closely linked with early scientific illustrations 
in the fields of medicine, chemistry, optics and 
colour theory. 


“This illustrated volume shows us a 
whole universe of occult knowledge 
presented like paintings in an 
exhibition.” 


— Les Enigmes du Sacré, Paris 


Front cover: Miniature painting by Jehan Perréal, 1516 
Back cover: Donum Dei, 17th century 
Spine: Robert Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, 1617 


THE HERMETIC MUSEUM: 


ALCHEMY 
& 
MYSTICISM 


ALEXANDER ROOB 


TASCHEN 


Bibliotheca Universalis 


Illustrations: p. 2, from: William Blake: 
Jerusafem,1804-1820; p. 6, from: Michael 
Maier; Viatorium, Oppenheim, 1618; p. 34, 
110, 492, from: J. Typotius: Symbola divina 
et humana, Prague, 1601-1603; p. 428, from: 
Basilius Valentius: Chymische Schriften, 
Leipzig, 1769 


EACH AND EVERY TASCHEN BOOK PLANTS A SEED! 
TASCHEN is a carbon neutral publisher. Each year, we 
offset our annual carbon emissions with carbon credits at 


the Instituto Terra, a reforestation program in Minas Gerais, 


Brazil, founded by Lélia and Sebastiao Salgado. 

To find out more about this ecological partnership, please 
check: www.taschen.com/zerocarbon 

Inspiration: unlimited. Carbon footprint: zero. 


To stay informed about TASCHEN and our upcoming 
titles, please subscribe to our free magazine at 
www.taschen.com/magazine, follow us on Twitter, 
Instagram, and Facebook, or e-mail your questions 
to contact@taschen.com. 


© 2016 TASCHEN GmbH 
Hohenzollernring 53, D-50672 K6In 
www.taschen.com 


Original edition: © 1997 Benedikt Taschen Verlag GmbH 
© for the illustrations of Marcel Duchamp: The Estate of 
Marcel Duchamp/VG Bild-Kunst, Bonn 2016; for the 
illustrations of Francis Bacon: The Estate of Francis 
Bacon. All rights reserved/VG Bild-Kunst, Bonn 2016 

© VG Bild-Kunst, Bonn 2016 for the illustrations of 
Joseph Beuys 

© for the illustration of Yves Klein: Yves Klein/VG Bild- 
Kunst, Bonn 2016 

Cover design: Sense/Net Art Direction / Andy Disl, 
www.sense-net.net and Birgit Eichwede, Cologne 
English translation: Shaun Whiteside, London 


Printed in China 
ISBN 978-3-8365-4936-3 


34 


110 


428 


492 


567 


CONTENTS 


INTRODUCTION 


Macrocosm 

The world Ptolemy, Brahe, Copernicus -Sun- Moon - 
Cosmic time - Lower astronomy - Stars - Music of 
the spheres - Genesis - Eye - Cosmic egg 


Opus MAGNUM 

Genesis in the retort Elementa chemicae - 
Purification - Fall of Adam - Chaos - Saturnine night - 
Torment of the metals - Resurrection - Aurora - 
Light & Darkness Jacob Bohme’s system - Ladder 
Ramon Lull’s system - Philosophical tree - Sephiroth - 
Ab uno - Fortress - Animal riddles - Oedipus chimi- 
cus - Dew Mute book - Women’s work & child’s play - 
Vegetable chemistry - Serpent - Return Theosophi- 
cal Society - Conjunctio Rosarium philosophorum - 
Androgyny - Separatio - Hermetic Yantras - Trinity - 
Fire - Philosophical egg - Matrix - Fountain - Christ- 
Lapis - Blood 


Microcosm 
Human Form Divine - Brain & memory - Signatures - 
Script & seal - Apparitions 


ROTATION 
Whirl & magnet - Divine Geometry - Wheel Winds, 


Gurdjieff’s eneagramm, Colour wheel - Rose - Pilgrim 


INDEX 


INTRODUCTION 


“It will be apparent that it is difficult 
to discern which properties each thing 
possesses in reality.” 
(Democritus, 8th century B.C.) 


Introduction 


The hermetic museum 


Arich world of images has etched itself into the memory of mod- 
ern man, despite the fact that it is not available in public collec- 
tions, but lies hidden in old manuscripts and prints. 

These are the eternal “halls of Los”, the prophet of the imag- 
ination, which are filled with the exemplary images and Platonic 
figures that govern our understanding of the world and ourselves, 
and of which the poet William Blake (1757-1827) wrote that “all 
things acted on earth are seen in them”, and that “every age 
renews its powers from these works”. (Jerusalem, 1804-1820) 


Puzzle pictures & linguistic riddles 

By imbuing them with a special hieroglyphic aura, the creators of 
these pictures sought to suggest the very great age of their art 
and to acknowledge the source of their wisdom: the patriarch of 
natural mysticism and alchemy, Hermes Trismegistus. 

It was Greek colonists in late classical Egypt who identified 
their healing, winged messenger of the gods, Hermes (Lat. Mer- 
curius) with the ancient Egyptian Thoth, the ‘Thrice Greatest’. 
Thoth was the god of writing and magic, worshipped, like Hermes, 
as the “psychopompos”, the souls’ guide through the underworld. 
The mythical figure of Hermes Trismegistus was also linked toa 
legendary pharaoh who was supposed to have taught the Egyp- 
tians all their knowledge of natural and supernatural things, in- 
cluding their knowledge of hieroglyphic script. The alchemists saw 
him as their “Moses” who had handed down the divine command- 
ments of their art in the “emerald tablet”. This “Tabula Smarag- 
dina”, now believed to date back to the 6th-8th centuries A.D., be- 
came known to the Christian world after the fourteenth century 
through translations from the Arabic. 

There was hardly a single alchemist in either the laboratory 
or the speculative, mystical camp who was not prepared to bring 
his discoveries into line with the solemn and verbatim message of 
these twelve theses: 

“True, true. Without doubt. Certain: / The below is as the 
above, and the above as the below, to perfect the wonders of the 


INTRODUCTION 


One. / And as all things came from the One, from the meditation 
of the One, so all things are born from this One by adaptation. / Its 
father is the Sun, its mother the Moon; the Wind carries it in its 
belly; its nurse is the Earth. / It is the father of all the wonders of 
the whole world. Its power is perfect when it is transformed into 
Earth. / Separate the Earth from Fire and the subtle from the 
gross, cautiously and judiciously. / It ascends from Earth to 
Heaven and then returns back to the Earth, so that it receives the 
power of the upper and the lower. Thus you will possess the 
brightness of the whole world, and all darkness will flee you. / This 
is the force of all forces, for it overcomes all that is subtle and 
penetrates solid things. / Thus was the world created. / From this 
wonderful adaptations are effected, and the means are given 
here. / And Hermes Trismegistus is my name, because I possess the 
three parts of the wisdom of the whole world.” 

Also from Hermes, messenger of the gods, comes hermeneu- 
tics, the art of textual interpretation, and according to the author 
of the Buch der Heiligen Dreifaltigkeit (Book of the Holy Trinity, 
1415), the first alchemical text in the German language, this occurs 


INTRODUCTION 


Introduction 


The Emerald 
Tablet, the central 
monument to the 
hermetic imagin- 
ation. 


Heinrich Khunrath, 
Amphitheatrum 
sapientiae aeter- 
nae, Hanover, 1606 


Introduction 


“The wind bears it 
in its belly.” 


The birth of the 
philosophers’ 
stone occurs in the 
air. 


M. Maier, 
Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


“Its nurse is the 
Earth.” 


Mercurial water 
nourishes it. 


M. Maier, 


Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


10 


INTRODUCTION 


in four directions: in the natural, supernatural, divine and human 
sense. As used by its most distinguished representatives, alchemi- 
cal literature possesses a suggestive language, rich in allegories, 
homophony and word-play which, often through the mediation of 
Jacob Bohme’s theosophical works, has hada profound effect on 
the poetry of Romanticism (Blake, Novalis), the philosophy of 
German idealism (Hegel, Schelling) and on modern literature 
(Yeats, Joyce, Rimbaud, Breton, Artaud). 

Many voices, even from within their own ranks, were raised 
against the “obscure idioms” of the alchemists. And their own 
account of their communication technique hardly sounds more 
encouraging: “Wherever we have spoken openly we have (actu- 
ally) said nothing. But where we have written something in code 
and in pictures we have concealed the truth.” (Rosarium philoso- 
phorum, Weinheim edition, 1990) 

Anyone who inadvertently enters this linguistic arena will 
suddenly find himself in a chaotic system of references, anetwork 
of constantly changing code-names and symbols for arcane sub- 
stances, in which everything can always apparently mean every- 
thing else, and in which even specialist, Baroque dictionaries and 
modern lists of synonyms provide few clues. This kind of profusion 
of diffuse concepts always required simplifying measures. These 
might be said to include the influential attempts at interpretation 
by the Swiss psychoanalyst C.G. Jung (1875-1961), who was solely 
interested in the internal nature of the hybrid form of alchemy 
and only acknowledged its external, chemical workings as the 
scientific projection of psychological developments. 

But the hermetic philosophers can be heard “more freely, 
distinctly or clearly” “witha silent speech or without speech in the 
illustrations of the mysteries, both in the riddles presented with 
figures and in the words”. (C. Horlacher, Kern und Stern..., Frank- 
furt, 1707). With their thought-pictures they attempted, according 
to a motto of the Rosicrucian Michael Maier, “to reach the intellect 
via the senses”. To this extent, their highly cryptic, pictorial world 
can be placed under the heading of one of its favourite motifs, the 
hermaphrodite, as a cross between sensual stimulus (Aphrodite) 
and intellectual appeal (Hermes). It is aimed at man’s intuitive 
insight into the essential connections, not at his discursive ability, 


INTRODUCTION 


Introduction 


11 


Introduction 


Copy of Diirer’s 
illustrations to 
Horapollo 


1 “Hour-watching” 


2 Impossible 


3 Heart (Ibis) 


12 


which is largely held to be a destructive force. “That which lives on 
reason lives against the spirit”, wrote Paracelsus. Along with him, 
many lived in expectation of the “Third Empire of the Holy Spirit” 
prophesied by Joachim of Fiore (1130-1202), in which visionary 
insight would replace literal, textual understanding. The primal 
language of paradise, which names all things according to their 
true essence, would then be revealed again, and all the mysteries 
of nature would be presented as an open book. 

The tendency towards arcane language in “obscure speeches” 
in numbers and in enigmatic pictures, is explained by a profound 
scepticism about the expressive possibilities of literal language, 
subjected to Babylonian corruption, which holds the Holy Spirit 
fettered in its grammatical bonds. The prehistoric knowledge, the 
prisca sapientia that was revealed directly to Adam and Moses by 
God, and which was handed down in a long, elite chain of tradi- 
tion, had to be preserved in such a way that it was protected 
against the abuse of the profane. To this end, Hermes Trismegis- 
tus, who, like Zoroaster, Pythagoras and Plato, was seen as a major 
link in this hermetic chain, developed hieroglyphs. The Renais- 
sance idea of Egyptian hieroglyphs took them to be asymbolic, 
rebus-like, esoteric script. This was influenced by the treatise of a 
5th century Egyptian by the name of Horapollo, in which he pro- 
vided a symbolic key to some 200 signs. This work, entitled “Hiero- 
glyphica’, which was published in many translations and illustrated 
by Albrecht Diirer, among others, prompted the artists of the 
Renaissance, including Bellini, Giorgione, Titian and Bosch, to 
develop the language of signs in their own imaginative way. 

Horapollo’s “Hieroglyphica’ also formed the basis for the 
development, in the mid-16th century, of emblems, symbols which 


INTRODUCTION 


ff AKAM EAE MEN FOARAKHE 
\ METENOHSE 2LOMHEAR AP OYAEFOTE "! 


INTRODUCTION 


Introduction 


Hermes-Mercury, 
god of trade and 
communication, 
urges silence. 
Mercurial elo- 
quence refers to 
the phenomenal 
periphery, the 
revealed world of 
appearances. The 
experience of the 
effects of the spir- 
itual centre (Unit 
or Monas) is in- 
accessible to the 
expressive possi- 
bilities of lan- 
guage. 


In the cosmic vi- 
sions of Giordano 
Bruno (1548-1600) 
the monads, the 
divine nuclei of all 
living creatures, 
correspond to the 
gravitational cen- 
tres of the stars. 


Achilles Bocchius, 
Symbolicarum 
quaestionum..., 
Bologna, 1555 


13 


Introduction 


14 


are always connected with a short motto and generally accompa- 
nied by an explanatory commentary. They were very popular in the 
Baroque, and proved to be an ideal vehicle for the communication 
of paradoxical alchemical teaching aids and maxims. Pseudo-hiero- 
glyphs were thus connected with pseudo-ancient Egyptian wis- 
doms, since the majority of the hermetic scripts that tended to 

be found in attics or the niches of old walls proved to be pseudo- 
epigraphs masquerading as works by eminent figures in the her- 
metic tradition. 

Emphasizing their broad theoretical foundations, the 
alchemists often termed themselves “philosophers”, describing 
their work simply as “art” (ars) or “philosophical art”. Although 
the alchemical concept of art is derived from Aristotle's téchne, 
and refers very generally to skill in both theoretical and practical 
matters, its similarity to the extended concepts of art in the 
modern age is unmistakable. It is not, as one might immediately 
assume, the illustrative and fantastic spheres of the traditional 
visual arts, in which the links to the hermetic Opus Magnum, the 
‘Great Work’ of the alchemists, are revealed, but rather those 
areas that involve the aspect of process in the experience of reality, 
such as Conceptual Art and Fluxus. 

The heyday of hermetic emblems and the art of illustration 
coincided with the decline in “classical” alchemy, which was still 
capable of combining technical skills and practical experience with 
spiritual components. Theosophical alchemists like the Rosicru- 
cians and practising laboratory chemists like Andreas Libavius, 
who sought to improve the empirical foundations of alchemy and 
thereby brought it closer to analytical chemistry, were already 
irreconcilable by the beginning of the 17th century. Although Rosi- 
crucians did boast that “godless and accursed gold-making” was 
easy for them, this was a ludicrous and marginal pursuit in com- 
parison with the main pursuit of inner purification: their gold was 
the spiritual gold of the theologians. 

But these two divergent trends could lay claim to the same 
founding father, Theophrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim, also 
known as Paracelsus (1493-1541). In his work, the empirical study 
of nature takes place against a visionary and mystical background. 
His prodigious body of work contains both numerous instructions 


INTRODUCTION 


for the manufacture of pharmaceutical preparations on a vege- 
table and metallic basis and a practically inexhaustible wealth of 
natural mystical concepts in the spheres of astral magic, the 
Cabala and Christian mysticism. Dressing these up in highly indi- 
vidual “bombastic” linguistic creations did nothing to reduce their 
wide dissemination. These writings would exert an influence for 
centuries, extending from the speculative interpreters of alchemy, 
from Valentin Weigel, the Rosicrucians and Jacob Bohme, to the 
Romantics and modern branches of anthroposophy and theoso- 
phy. 

With their two playful manifestos, in which they promised 
more gold “than the king of Spain brings back from the two In- 
dias”, a group of Protestant theology students had given a power- 
ful boost to the production of alchemical writings at the beginning 
of the 17th century. Even in the 18th century this kind of printed 
matter, dealing with the search for the /apis, the Philosophers’ 
Stone, were seen in such numbers at German book fairs “that one 
could make the road from Frankfurt to Leipzig lovely and soft and 
even with them”. J.G. Volckamer the Younger, Adeptus Fatalis, 
Freiburg, 1721; quoted in: J. Telle, “Bemerkungen zum “Rosarium 
philosophorum”™, in: Rosarium philosophorum, Weinheim 1992) 

One of the many sympathizers with the invisible Lutheran 
fraternity was Lucas Jennis, the publisher of the first “Musaeum 
Hermeticum’, published in Frankfurt in 1625. Although the number 
of illustrations in this collection of treatises hardly does justice 
to its title, it does contain a number of excellent engravings by 
Matthaus Merian (1593-1650). A year previously, under the title of 
Viridarium Chymicum or Chymisches Lustgartlein (Chymical Garden 
of Delights), Jennis had published a collection of alchemical illus- 
trations taken from books published by his company. The indi- 
vidual illustrations are accompanied by rather unenlightening 
lines from the pen of Daniel Stolcius von Stolcenberg, a pupil of 
the Paracelsian physician Michael Maier (1568-1622). Maier had 
been physician to Emperor Rudolf Il, known as the “German Her- 
mes’, whose Prague court was home to the most famous esoteric 
scientists of the day. In 1618 Maier published his famous collection 
of emblems ‘Atalanta fugiens’ with the Oppenheim publisher 
Theodor de Bry. To Merian’s marriage to de Bry’s daughter we owe 


INTRODUCTION 


Introduction 


15 


Introduction 


The Kircher 
Museum in the 
Collegium 
Romanum 


A. Kircher, Turris 


Babel, Amsterdam, 
1679 


16 


INTRODUCTION 


not only the illustrations to the ‘Atalanta’ but also many of the en- Introduction 
gravings for the gigantic book-publishing enterprise of Maier’s 

English friend and colleague Robert Fludd (1574-1637), the 

Utriusque Cosmi (...) Historia (The History of the Two Worlds) in 

several volumes. 

Identifying his intellectual background with some exactitude, 
detractors called Fludd Trismegistian-Platonick-Rosy-crucian 
Doctor. His actual achievements in the field of natural science may 
not have been of any great significance, but the vivid expression 
which he gave to many contemporary impulses are important for 
an understanding of Elizabethan culture, particularly the dramas 
of Shakespeare. Fludd deserves a status within cultural history 
which has hitherto been withheld from him. (lam grateful to 
Dietrich von Donat for informing me that Fludd gave the de Bry 
printing works very detailed drawings on which to base their 
engravings.) 

In the next generation, however, Fludd found a competitor in 
the Counter-Reformation camp, in the Jesuit Athanasius Kircher 
(1602-1680), who would far exceed the former’s encyclopaedic 
achievement in almost every area. The universal scholar Kircher is 
seen above all as the founder of Egyptology, and until Champol- 
lion’s triumph his symbolic deciphering of hieroglyphs was unchal- 
lenged. 

His extensive work, which included — alongside his many richly 
illustrated volumes — his famous scientific collection (kept at the 
‘Museum Kircherianum’ in the Collegium Romanum in Rome until 
1876), is permeated by his scientific knowledge, esoteric interests 
and evidence of a pronounced belief in miracles. In this, and also in 
his early attention to oriental and Asiatic systems of religion, he 
prepared the ground for the adventurous syncretism of the Theo- 
sophical Society at the end of the 19th century. 


Gnosis and Neoplatonism 

For the art historian Aby Warburg (1866-1929), who did pioneering 
interdisciplinary work in the early years of this century, late classi- 
cal Alexandria represented the epitome of the dark, superstitious 
side of man. Here, in the first century A.D., in the former centre 

of Greek culture on Egyptian soil, with its highly diverse mixture of 


INTRODUCTION 17 


Introduction 


18 


peoples, Greek and Roman colonists, Egyptians and Jews, the 
threads of all the individual disciplines making up the complex of 
hermetic philosophy came together: alchemy, astral magic and the 
Cabala. The complementary syncretic systems that nourished 
them, hybrids of Hellenic philosophies and oriental religions and 
mystery cults, are known by the two concepts of Gnosis and 
Neoplatonism. Both are fundamentally animistic, filled with many 
demonic and angelic creatures, whose power and influence deter- 
mine human fate. 

Gnosis means knowledge, and the Gnostics acquired this ina 
number of ways. The first and most fundamental form of know- 
ledge is good news, and concerns the divine nature of one’s own 
essence: the soul appears as a divine spark of light. The second 
is bad news and concerns the “terror of the situation”: the spark 
of light is subject to the influence of external dark forces, in the 
exile of matter. Imprisoned within the coarse dungeon of the 
body, it is betrayed by the external senses; the demonic stars sully 
and bewitch the divine essence of one’s nature in order to prevent 
a return to the divine home. 

Under the stimulus of Zoroastrian and Platonic dualism, a 
painful gulf opened up between the interior and the external, 
between subjective and objective experience, between spirit and 
matter. It was cosmologically established by Aristotle (384-322 
B.C.) in the ath century B.C., with a strict division of the universe 
into the eternal, ethereal heaven and the transient sublunary 
sphere. This model, only slightly modified by the Alexandrian 
Gnostic Claudio Ptolemy (c. A.D. 100-178), suppressed all efforts 
at a unified explanation of the world for two millennia. 

In Gnosis, pleroma, the spiritual plenitude of the divine world 
of light stands immediately opposite kenoma, the material void of 
the earthly world of phenomena. The ungrateful task of creation 
falls to a creator god who works against the good god of light or 
“unknown father”, and who often bears the despotic traits of the 
Old Testament Jehovah. He is the demiurge, a word which simply 
means artist or craftsman. 

While in Plato’s world creation myth, “Timaeus”, the demi- 
urge, also called “the poet”, forms a well-proportioned cosmos 
out of the primal world, in the form of an organism with a soul, 


INTRODUCTION 


which “contains all mortal and immortal things”, the Gnostic demi- 
urge produces a terrible chaos, a corrupt and imperfect 

creation which, in the belief of the alchemists, must be improved 
and completed through their “art” with a new organization or 
reorganization. 

In many Gnostic myths man is given an autonomous task of 
creation: in order to heal the sick organism of the world, he must 
lead the divine sparks of light, spiritual gold, through the seven 
planetary spheres of the Ptolemaic cosmos and back to their heav- 
enly home. To the outermost sphere of Saturn corresponds the 
“sullied garment of the soul”, the grossest material, lead. Passing 
through this sphere meant physical death and the putrefaction of 
matter that is a necessary prerequisite transformation. The sub- 
sequent stages were: Jupiter-tin, Mars-iron, Venus-copper, Mer- 
cury-quicksilver, Moon-silver and Sun-gold. 

The individual metals were taken to represent various degrees 
of maturity or illness of the same basic material on its way to per- 
fection, to gold. To ease its passage through the seven gates of 
the planetary demons, gnosis, the knowledge of astral magic prac- 
tices, was required. 

The Neoplatonists took the various diverging concepts that 
their master had put forward dialectically in his dialogues and 
poured them into the tight corset of tiered, pyramid-shaped world 
orders. Like a descending scale of creation, the universe overflows 
from the uppermost One, the good, its intervals following the har- 
monic laws linked with the name of the philosopher Pythagoras 
(6th century B.C.) and his doctrine of the music of the spheres. The 
inner discord of the Gnostics was unknown to them. Between the 
two poles of Plato’s philosophy, the static and immortal world 
of the celestial forms and the moving and transient world of their 
likenesses on earth, they inserted a series of mediating author- 
ities. 

Corresponding to the tripartite division of the small world of 
man (microcosm) into body, soul and spirit was a cosmic soul which 
dwelled in the realm of the stars. This cosmic soul reflected the 
ideas of the higher, transcendental sphere of the divine intellect, 
and through the influence of the stars these ideas imprinted their 
eternal “symbols” on the lower, physical transient sphere. 


INTRODUCTION 


Introduction 


19 


Introduction 


20 


Man thereby has the possibility of manipulating events in the 
earthly sphere, using magical practices such as the manufacture of 
talismans, spells and other such things to affect this middle sphere 
of the cosmic soul. Contact is established through the fine mater- 
ial of the “sidereal” or “astral body” that invisibly surrounds man. 
Before the Fall, according to the Gnostic-Cabalistic myths, the 
whole of heaven was a single human being of fine material, the 
giant, androgynous, primordial Adam, who is now in every human 
being, in the shrunken form of this invisible body, and who is wait- 
ing to be brought back to heaven. Man can communicate with the 
macrocosm through this sidereal medium, and thus receives pre- 
monitions and prophecies in dreams. 

The equivalent in man of the demiurgic, world-creating urge 
of the outer stars is the creative capacity of the imagination, which 
Paracelsus calls “the inner star”. Imagination is not to be confused 
with fantasy. The former is seen as a solar, structuring force aimed 
at the eida, the paradigmatic forms in the “real world”, the latter 
as a lunatic delusion related to the e/do/a, the shadowy likenesses 
of the “apparent world”. 

“If someone really possessed these inner ideas of which Plato 
speaks, then he could draw his whole life from them and create 
artwork after artwork without ever reaching an end.” (Albrecht 
Diirer) 

Paracelsus likens the imagination to a magnet which, with its 
power of attraction, draws the things of the external world within 
man, to reshape them there. Its activity is thus captured in the 
image of the inner alchemist, the sculptor or the blacksmith. It is 
crucial to master them, for what man thinks “is what he is, anda 
thing is as he thinks it. If he thinks a fire, he is a fire”. (Paracelsus) 

For the Greek natural philosopher Democritus (470-c. 380 
B.C.), who originated the idea of the microcosm, all images, 
whether of phenomena, ideas or thoughts, are concretely material 
things whose qualities can impress themselves upon the viewer; 
even the soul, according to him, consists of subtle, fiery atoms. 
Most streams of thought in mysticism oscillate between the fun- 
damental dualism of spirit and matter and a form of monism 
derived from Democritus. Thus, for the Neoplatonists, the visible 
and tangible sphere represents only the gross residue of along 


INTRODUCTION 


sequence of increasingly subtle degrees of matter. We come across 
this materialism once again in the modern spiritualist and occult 
movements, whose important representative, the Swedish vision- 
ary Emanuel Swedenborg (1688-1772), went in search of the mate- 
riality of the soul and the life-spirits in his early scientific phase. 

In the Middle Ages Neoplatonism chiefly found its way into 
the mysticism of the Eastern Church. Although it was by no means 
incompatible with the rigidly hierarchical structures of the me- 
dieval state and Church, in the West it led a shadowy existence on 
the edge of the great scholastic system of theories. The Church 
believed it had finally put a stop to the attempted invasion of 
gnostic “heresies” in the sense of a self-determining and liberal 
consciousness of salvation, in its destruction of the heresies of the 
Cathars and Waldensians at the beginning of the 13th century, and 
in the subsequent establishment of the “Holy Inquisition”. 


SAY ip Epo cen euy emcees 9 waseansenceny Inte fran erates Hangs een os 

Semwapetegharnadlineg $e Natt SE Teeny Nee bon rf ; 
frfetanp? forrs%* GBs r fet, SC fin ringrts wifaverd 
«fs [press reroas ~d ; : re 


INTRODUCTION 


Introduction 


Leonardo da Vinci 
(1452-1519) was 
familiar with the 
ideas of Florentine 
Neoplatonism, 
particularly 

the Corpus 
Hermeticum in 
Marsilio Ficino’s 
translation. 


Study of propor- 
tions after Vitruvius 


21 


Introduction 


22 


But in the Renaissance the flow of Alexandrian tradition 
forged powerfully ahead: in 1463 Marsilio Ficino (1433-1499), the 
central figure in the Florentine Platonic Academy, was commis- 
sioned by Cosimo de Medici to translate a collection of fourteen 
Gnostic and Neoplatonist treatises from the early Christian 
period. Also attributed to the “Thrice Greatest Hermes”, this col- 
lection was well-known under the title Corpus Hermeticum. These 
texts made a profound impression on the humanist intellectual 
world, for although they were ostensibly ancient, pagan writings 
permeated with various concepts of magic, they still seemed to be 
written entirely in the tone of the New Testament, and to be im- 
bued with the Christian spirit. Moreover, the idea of ancient Jew- 
ish teachings that reached all the way back to Moses — the Cabala 
— as conveyed by Picino’s friend, Pico della Mirandola (1463-1494) 
reinforced the suspicion of a prisca sapientia in the Christian spirit. 
(In fact the Cabala, in its familiar form, was only developed out 
of its Alexandrian foundations in Spain and Southern France in the 
12th and 13th centuries.) 

The effects of Gnostic consciousness on European intellectual 
life are so comprehensive and omnipresent that their extent is 
hard to assess: the man of the Corpus Hermeticum, blessed with 
divine creative powers, merges with the image of the Renaissance 
man, who has begun to free himself from the bonds of the tiered, 
medieval cosmos and thereby moves towards the centre of the 
universe. 

The Gnostic spark of light, which strives for divine knowledge 
out of the darkness of the world, is reflected in the individual 
Protestant soul’s struggle for salvation. Over the centuries, 
Lutheran orthodoxy managed to erase from its own ranks almost 
all memories of natural mystical reform movements deriving from 
alchemy and the Cabala, since they opposed “walled Christianity 
and literal faith” from the first. 

William Blake rightly described the deistic God of the 
progress-loving Enlightenment, who abandons the machinery of 
creation once he has set it in motion, leaving it to continue blindly 
on its course, as a Gnostic demiurge. And the broad path of mod- 
ern science was only able to open up on the basis of the motif of an 
imperfect creation in need of improvement . Interestingly, it was 


INTRODUCTION 


also Gnostic thinkers such as Paracelsus and Bohme who drew the 
picture of the dark matter of enchanted, divine, nature, and thus 
stimulated the later Romantic worship of nature. 

Only a few alchemists were familiar with the Corpus Her- 
meticum. For them all, however, Hermes was associated with the 
figure who had brought them the Emerald Tablet, and with the 
moist, “mercurial” principle which they called the “beginning and 
end of the Work”. The veneration of this “divine water” reached 
back to the upper, pneumatic waters of Gnosis which, in Greek 
writings from the early years of alchemy, in reference to the descent 
of the Gnostic Christ, flowed down into the darkness of matter to 
awaken the dead bodies of their metals from their slumber. 

These writings also deal with the rites of the dismemberment 
and resurrection of metals which recall the Egyptian myth of 
Osiris, as well as the Orphic and Dionysian cults, which are kept 
alive to this day in the rites of Freemasonry. The scholar of com- 
parative religions, Mircea Eliade, refers to the idea of the “en- 
twined and dramatic life of matter” that derives from the ancient, 
metallurgical practices of the Egyptian and Mesopotamian cul- 
tures, whose inner development and form in visionary images 
were only possible “through the knowledge of the Greek-Oriental 
mysteries”. (Schmiede und Alchemisten [Smiths and Alchemists] 
Stuttgart, 1980) 

There was no strict division between the organic and inorganic 
study of matter, and thus the process of transmutation was im- 
agined as a kind of fermentation, in which certain metals were 
able to transfer their properties like an enzyme or a yeast. 

However, alchemy, as it reached Christian Europe via Spain in 
the 12th and 13th centuries, is much richer and more mysterious 
than the mystical writings of the early Alexandrian alchemists 
would suggest. To do justice to the “Royal Art”, we might use the 
tripartite separation much loved by the Hermetics: according to 
which the part corresponding to the soul was to be found in Egyp- 
tian Alexandria. But it owes its corpus, its great wealth of practical 
experiences, of technical knowledge, code names, maxims and 
allegorical images, to its development by the Arabs. And its spirit, 
finally, lies within the natural philosophy of ancient Greece, where 
its theoretical foundations were laid in the 5th century B.C. 


INTRODUCTION 


Introduction 


23 


Introduction 


The divine 
mercurial water. 


Baro Urbigerus, 
Besondere 
Chymische 
Schriften, 
Hamburg, 1705 


24 


INTRODUCTION 


Concepts of natural philosophy Introduction 
It is said of the philosopher and thaumaturge Empedocles that he 
claimed the existence of two suns. The hermetic doctrines also 
include a double sun, and distinguish between a bright spirit-sun, 
the philosophical gold, and the dark natural sun, corresponding to 
material gold. The former consists of the essential fire that is con- 
joined with the ether or the ‘glowing air’. The idea of the vivifying 
fire — Heraclitus (6th century B.C.) calls it the ‘artistic’ fire running 
through all things — is a legacy of Persian magic. Its invisible effect 
supposedly distinguishes the Work of the alchemists from that 

of the profane chemists. The natural sun, however, consists of the 
known, consuming fire, whose precisely dosed use also deter- 
mines the success of the enterprise. 

Empedocles also taught that all life lay in the movement 
resulting from the clash between the two polar forces, love and 
conflict. In the Opus Magnum these correspond to the two alter- 
nating processes of dissolution and coagulation, disintegration 
and bonding, distillation and condensation, systole and diastole, 
“the yes and no in all things”. (J. Bohme) They correspond to the 
two polar agents of Arabic alchemy: mercury and sulphur, philo- 
sophical quicksilver and brimstone, sun and moon, white woman 
and red man. The climax of the Work is the moment of conjunctio, 
the conjunction of the male and female principle in the marriage of 
heaven and earth, of fiery spirit and watery matter (materia from 
the Latin mater, mother). The indestructible product of this cosmic 
sex act is the /apis, the “red son of the Sun”. 

William Blake identified the male principle with time and the 
female with space. The interpenetration of the two results in di- 
verse reverberations of individual events, all of which, taken as 
a whole - totality, the micro-macrocosmic body of Christ in the 
image of the “human and the divine imagination — occur in a state 
of relative simultaneity. Each individual element opens up, in pass- 
ing, into the permanent present of this fluctuating organism and in 
the process attains its “fourfold”, complete form, which Blake calls 
“Jerusalem”. This vision generated the kaleidoscopic, narrative 
structures of his late poems, which reveal themselves to the reader 
as a multi-layered structure of perspectival relations — aimed 
against the prevailing idea of a simple location of events in 


INTRODUCTION 25 


Introduction 


Francis Bacon, 
Study from the 
death mask of 
William Blake, 
1955 (detail) 


26 


the absolutes of linear time and space, which Newton (1643-1727) 
took as his foundation in formulating his physical laws. 

Behind the often crude imaginings of the English painter- 
poet, with all necessary clarity of detail, lies the most intelligent 
and far-sighted critique of the materialist-mechanistic cosmology 
of the 17th and 18th centuries, a cosmology whose terrible influ- 
ence still prevails to this day, ona global scale. 

In alchemy, the female mercurial principle symbolizes the pro- 
tean aspect of natural processes, their fluid changeability. “The 
process laboratory-workers wanted to rule him (Mercurius) ... and 
force him into (the) process”, writes Johannis de Monte Raphim; 
but he constantly escapes, and if one thinks about him, he turns 
into thoughts, and if one passes judgment upon him, he is judg- 
ment itself. (“Vorbothe der Morgenréthe”, in: Deutsches Theatrum 
Chemicum, Nuremberg, 1728) 

The physicists of the 20th century encountered this oscillating 
principle behind the iron curtain of Newtonian physics in the 
depths of quantum mechanics, where it has proven impossible to 
determine both precisely and simultaneously the position and the 
impulse of minute particles. It has also been demonstrated that 
the appearance of subatomic particles is dependent on the act of 
observation itself. With regard to the work of the alchemists, we 
could discuss the problem of projection, of transference through 
imagination, at a purely psychological level. But at the micro- 
physical level it has been shown that the subject and object of 
perception are ontologically, inextricably linked. Subjectivity 
was recognized as a formative influence within the process of 
nature in its entirety which, according to the statements of some 
alchemists, consists in the constant reversal of inner and outer. 

In his final lecture in 1941, the mathematician Alfred North 
Whitehead (1861-1947), who in his Platonically inspired ‘organis- 
mic philosophy’ developed concepts to overcome the ‘bifurcation 
of nature’ into the spheres of subjective perception and objective 
facts, boiled down the philosophical consistency of the mercurial 
discoveries of modern physics to the concise observation: “Exact- 
ness is a fake”. 

In alchemy, the necessary counterforce to mercury, a force 
which also defines and shapes, is represented by male sulphur. 


INTRODUCTION 


INTRODUCTION 


Introduction 


Hermes Trismegis- 
tus and the creative 
fire that unites the 
polarities. 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


Dissolution and 
bonding, or 
mercury and 
sulphur in the 
image of eagle 
and toad. 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, 
Viridarium 
chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


27 


Introduction 


28 


Paracelsus added a further principle to the medieval doctrine of 
the dual principles, thereby making a decisive contribution toa 
more dynamic view of the natural processes. 

Paracelsus identified the third fundamental principle as salt. 
Its property as a solid corresponds to that of the body. Sulphur, 
with its property of greasy, oily combustibility, mediates in the 
position of the soul. And mercury, the fluid principle witha 
propensity to sublimation, is the volatile intellect. 

These Paracelsian “Tria Prima” are not chemical substances, 
but spiritual forces, from whose changeable proportions the invis- 
ible blacksmiths or craftsmen of nature produce the transient ma- 
terial compositions of the objective world. In more modern, specu- 
lative alchemy, particularly in the Masonic beliefs of the 18th cen- 
tury, the arcanum salt finally moved into the centre of hermetic, 
gnostic mysticism. Because of its curative properties it was often 
interpreted in Christological terms as the “coagulated light of the 
world”, the “secret central fire” or the “salt of wisdom”. 

The doctrine of the four elements also goes back to Empedo- 
cles. He referred to them as the “four roots of all things: earth, 
water, air and fire. Hippocrates applied it as the theory of the four 
humours to the microcosm, and in the 4th century B.C. this theory 
was considerably refined by Aristotle. He traced all elements back 
to acommon, prime matter, the proté hyle or prima materia. The 
alchemists also described this as “our chaos” or the “dark lump” 
that resulted from the fall of Lucifer and Adam. Accordingly, to 
sublimate it and elevate it to the lapis meant nothing less than 
bringing fallen creation back to its paradisal, primal state. Finding 
the correct source material for the Work was the chief concern 
of every alchemist, his specific secret, well-protected by code 
names. And the riddles had it that nothing was easier than finding 
it, because it is at home in all elements, even in the dust of the 
street; and although, like Christ, it is really the most precious 
thing in the world, to the ignorant it is the “most wretched of 
earthly things”. 

According to Aristotle, the prima materia conjoins with the 
four qualities of dryness, coldness, moisture and heat, thus 
developing to form the four elements. By manipulating these 
qualities, it was also possible, so he thought, to change the ele- 


INTRODUCTION 


INTRODUCTION 


Introduction 


Corresponding to 
the four elements 
(left to right: 
earth, water, air 
and fire) are the 
four phases in the 
alchemical Work 
and four degrees 
of fire. 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, 
Viridarium 
chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


The source mater- 
ial for the lapis 
can be found 
everywhere: in 
the earth, on the 
mountains, in the 
air and in the nour- 
ishing water. 


M. Maier, 


Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


29 


Introduction 


30 


mental combinations of materials, thereby bringing about their 
transmutation. 

Accordingly, the work of the alchemist lies “only in the rota- 
tion of the elements. For the material of the stone passes from one 
nature into another, the elements are gradually extracted, and in 
turn relinquish their powers (...) until all are turned downwards 
together and rest there”. (J. d’Espagnet, “Das Geheime Werk”, in: 
Deutsches Theatrum chemicum, Nuremberg, 1728) 

According to a law attributed to Pythagoras, quadernity de- 
fines the spectrum of all earthly possibilities. The Aristotelian fifth 
element, the refined quintessence, is thus found only inthe upper 
divine fiery heaven. It was the goal of all alchemists to bring this 
fifth element down to earth though the repeated transmutations 
that their work entailed. This meant that they would often be dis- 
tilling alcohol or imagining the divine light to be within salt. 

The alchemist’s journey required him to pass through that 
outermost circle of the underworld — the serpent’s circle of Sat- 
urn. Saturn is identical to Chronos, the Greek god of time, and in 
overcoming him one has broken with transient, sequential time 
and reverted to a Golden Age of eternal youth and the divine 
benevolence, that allows one to merge into another. This dream 
was to be be fulfilled by a rejuvenating elixir, “drinkable gold” the 
legend of which had probably reached early, medieval Arabia via 
China and India. 

The very earliest Greek text with an alchemical content, bear- 
ing the programmatic title Physika kai Mystika (of natural and hid- 
den things), divides the Opus Magnum into four phases according 
to the colours that it produces: blackening (nigredo), whitening 
(albedo), yellowing (citrinitas) and reddening (rubedo). This division 
has survived the entire history of alchemy. Later, there appeared 
other, highly divergent subdivisions of “lower astronomy”, as 
alchemy was also known. These were based on planets and metals, 
as well as on the twelve signs of the zodiac. In his Dictionnaire 
Mytho-Hermétique (Paris, 1787), J. Pernety listed the following 
phases: 1. ca/cinatio: oxidization — Aries; 2. congelatio: crystalliza- 
tion - Taurus; 3. fixatio: fixation - Gemini; 4. so/utio: dissolution, 
melting — Cancer; 5. digestio: dismemberment — Leo; 6. distilfatio: 
separation of the solid from the liquid — Virgo; 7. sublimatio: 


INTRODUCTION 


INTRODUCTION 


ECT 


Introduction 


The eternal lapis & 
is produced by the 
rotation of the 
elements, in the 
unification of 
upper and lower, 
of fire A and 
water V. It is the 
celestial image 

of earthly gold, 
shown here as 
Apollo in the 
underworld, 
amongst the six 
Muses or metals. 


Musaeum Her- 


meticum, Frankfurt 
edition, 1749 


31 


Introduction 


32 


refinement through sublimation — Libra; 8. separatio: separation, 
division — Scorpio; 9. ceratio: fixing in a waxy state — Sagittarius; 
10. fermentatio: fermentation — Capricorn; 11. multiplicatio: multi- 
plication — Aquarius; 12. projectio: scattering of the lapis on the 
base metals in the form of dust — Pisces. 

The aforementioned early alchemical text from the 1st-2nd 
century B.C. was published by a follower of Democritus, using the 
latter’s name. Democritus himself traced all phenomena capable 
of being experienced by the senses, including colours, back to the 
movements and changing combinations of minute particles with- 
out quality, which he called atoms, “indivisible”. This atomic real- 
ity behind the illusory world of appearances was of an inconceiv- 
able depth and secrecy. 

A history of practical alchemy could begin with the mystical 
atomist and non-alchemist Democritus, and it could end with the 
non-alchemystical atomists of the 20th century, who 200 years 
after the refutation of all scientific foundations of the hermetic 
art succeeded, by fusing atomic nuclei (admittedly using uneco- 
nomical amounts of energy) in transmuting the elements. 


INTRODUCTION 


View of the inside of the linear accelerator 
of the Society for Heavy lon Research in 
Darmstadt. Here, electrically charged 
atomic nuclei, for example, of tin, with the 
atomic number 50, are accelerated toa 
speed ten percent of the speed of light. 


INTRODUCTION 


Only then is the repulsive power of other 
atomic nuclei such as copper, with the 
atomic number 29, overcome, making 
fusion possible. The result would bea 
nucleus with 79 protons - gold. 


Introduction 


33 


MACROCOSM 


For Plato, the universe.or great world order 
was created by God the creator as a manifestation 
and illustration of his own perfection: “(...) and 
so he formed it as a single visible living thing which 
was to include all related creatures (...). 

By turning it he shaped it into a sphere (...), giving 
‘it the most perfect form of all.” 
(Timaeus, ¢. 410 BC) 


The World 


“lassure you that 
anyone who at- 
tempts a literal 
understanding of 
the writings of 
the hermetic 
philosophers will 
lose himself in the 
twists and turns of 
a labyrinth from 
which he will 
never find the 
way out.” (Livre 
de Artephius, Bibl. 
des Philosophes 
Chimiques, Paris, 
1741) 


In the courtyard: 
sulphur and mer- 
cury, the two basic 
components of 
matter. The three 
walls symbolize 
the three phases 
of the Work, which 
begins in spring 
under the zodiac 
sign of Aries and 
the decaying 
corpse. In summer, 
in the sign of Leo, 
the conjunction 

of spirit and soul 
occurs, and in 
December, in the 
sign of Sagittarius, 
the indestructible, 
red spirit-body 
emerges, the elixir 
or the “drinkable 
gold of eternal 
youth”. 


Janus Lacinius, 


Pretiosa Margarita 
novella, 1577-1583 


36 


Macrocosm: The World 


Ihe outer fire A, in the form of a cherub, 
quides the alchemical couple sulphur and 
mercury into the labyrinth of material 
transformation. The central temple is the 
place of their transformation, which can 
only occur with the help of the secret 
salt-fire which opens up the metals. This is 
formed from ammoniac *, salt of tartar 4 
and saltpetre O, which is taken isolated 
from the divine dew. 


Macrocosm: The World 


The World 


a a 


zy Rh 
| ST fuera, 
TAF) ee eer 
more Seas: Hs 


zoheee 
ORM TS 


ae TTT 


ry ele se ‘ 


aut 


The six-pointed star on the roof tells the 
wise men of the birth of their philosoph- 
ical child. 


G. van Vreeswyk, De Goude Leeuw, 
Amsterdam, 1676 


37 


The World 


38 


In the cosmology of the gnostic Ophites, the sea-monster (Leviathan, 
Ouroboros) as the celestial, primordial water, forms the outermost 
circle of the world of creation, which is inaccessible to the experi- 
ence of the senses, and shuts it off from the divine world of love and 
light. 

The Cabala, which is strongly indebted to gnostic teachings, also 
places a veil between God and creation. Jacob BOhme called this 
celestial veil the “Upper Water”, and in Blake’s mythology man has 
dwelt in the sea of time and space since the Flood. 

In the gnostic view, earthly existence is a sphere of grim exile, 
and for Paracelsus it is even the place to which Lucifer was banished: 
Hell itself. 

At birth the light-soul descends the ladder of the seven spheres 
to earth, in the process coarsened by the planets, which are seen 
as humble creator-gods and demons (archonts), and coated in dirty 
layers of matter. 

Each planet impresses a negative property upon the soul as it 
passes, dulling it in the process: Venus immodesty, Mercury miserli- 
ness, Mars wrath, Jupiter vanity, etc. 

After death the earthly body remains behind as a shell in Tar- 
tarus, and the soul rises through the region of air (Beemoth) and back 
up to the archontes, although these attempt to obstruct the soul’s 
passage. Hence, precise knowledge (gnosis) of the passwords and 
signs is required to open the way to sevenfold purification. 

The passage through the final sphere is the most difficult. 
According to Ophitic doctrine, this sphere’s master is Saturn, the 
demiurge, the “accursed” god who created time and space. He is the 
serpent guarding paradise. 


Macrocosm: The World 


Macrocosm: The World 


The World 


Reconstruction 
of the gnostic 
cosmology of the 
“Ophites” (from 
Gr. “ophis”, 
serpent). 


Hans Leisegang, 


Die Gnosis, 
Stuttgart, 1985 


39 


The World 


The writing of the 
Neoplatonist 
Pseudo-Dionysius 
Areopagita 

(c. A.D. 500) on 
the “celestial 
hierarchies” ex- 
erted a consider- 
able influence on 
the structuring of 
the Christian cos- 
mos through to the 
Renaissance. He 
distinguished be- 
tween nine choirs 
of angels, each 
triad being as- 
signed to a part of 
the trinity: the 
group of angels, 
archangels and 
virtues to the Holy 
Ghost; the powers, 
forces and domin- 
ions to the Son; the 
thrones, cherubim 
and seraphim to the 
Father. 


Il. top: Jacobus 
Publicus, Oratoriae 
artis epitome, 1482 


lil, bottom: 

Johannes Romberch, 
Congestorium artifi- 
ciose memorie, 1533 


4o 


Macrocosm: The World 


Macrocosm: The World 


The World 


In Dante’s Divine 
Comedy (1307— 
1321), the soul on 
its pilgrimage rises 
from the realm of 
Hell, which pro- 
jects spherically 
into the earth, via 
the mountain of 
Purgatory and the 
nine spheres of 
the planets, the 
fixed stars and the 
crystalline sphere, 
all of which are 
kept in motion by 
angels, up to 
Paradise, where 

it finds its home 
in the white 

rose of heaven, 
illuminated by the 
divine light. 


Michelangelo 
Cactani, La Materia 
della Divina Com- 
media di Dante 
Alighieri, 1855 


Ai 


The World 


The enthroned 
Christ Pantocrator 
blesses the uni- 
verse below him. 
The spheres of 
Jupiter and Saturn 
are inhabited by 
hierarchies of 
angels. At the 
centre is the map 
of the world with 
the T-shaped divi- 
sion into the three 
continents of Asia, 
Europe and Africa; 
a division familiar 
since classical 
antiquity, which 
depicted Asia as 
the same size as 
Europe and Africa 
put together. 

The vertical of the 
Tis the Mediter- 
ranean, the hori- 
zontal is formed 
by the Don, the 
Black Sea and the 
Nile 


Manuscript of Lam- 


bert of Saint-Omer, 
1260, Paris 


42 


“pendaae te 


Macrocosm: The World 


tS 


dif eagose etecbeetn 
tenfiro tigneras. fi out 


preriperare thmianee qpios fale marr ares” 


Macrocosm: The World 


The World 


The souls ascend 
from the realm of 
the elements via 
the spheres of the 
planets, the four 
levels of the soul 
and the nine choirs 
of angels to the 
highest sphere of 
Platonic Ideals. 
Christ sits en- 
throned above 
them all. 


Anonymous 


manuscript, 
qath century 


43 


The World 


The diagram 
shows the possible 
relationships and 
transformations of 
the four elements, 
both between 
each other and 
with respect to 
the four seasons 
and the tempera- 
ments. Earth — au- 
tumn - melan- 
cholic/ fire — sum- 
mer - choleric/ 

air - spring - san- 
guine/ water — 
winter — phleg- 
matic. 


The year as a net- 
work of relation- 
ships between the 
seasons, the ele- 
ments and the four 
points of the com- 
pass. 


Isidore of Seville, 
De natura rerum, 
manuscript antho- 
logy, c. A.D. 800 


44 


Macrocosm: The World 


Minerals. J, Spas 


iz 


‘Media TOT 


Macrocosm: The World 


The World 


Fludd combined 
the diagrams of 
the Middle Ages, 
as handed down 
by the well-known 
encyclopaedic 
works of Isidore 
of Seville (A. D. 
560-633), with 
the complex sym- 
bolism of the 
Cabala. 


Ill. top: the com- 
ponents of the 
macrocosm 


Ill. bottom: the 
components of the 
microcosm 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 


Cosmi, Frankfurt, 
1621 


45 


The World 


Based on the work 
of the Florentine 
Pico della Miran- 
dola (1463-1494), 
the systems of the 
so-called “Christ- 
ian Cabala” link to 
neoplatonic and 
Christian elements 
with a knowledge 
of Jewish mysti- 
cism, that was 
often taken from 
corrupt sources. 
In this diagram 
Robert Fludd es- 
tablished a paral- 
lel between the 
levels of the Ptole- 
maic cosmos and 
the twenty-two 
letters of the 
Hebrew alphabet, 
from which God 
created the world. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 


Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


46 


Fons ess 
Actus p 
‘Ens conti 
Natura na 


Macrocosm: The World 


S- \ 
Ccraphin. > 
a erubin. 
qe pominationes- 


vy rhront. 
Gi potcstates 


The World 


rae 


SYSTEMA MAGICUM - 


The geocentric concept of the world 

was still evident in 18th-century Freema- 
sonry. The “Magical Outline of the World 
after Ptolemy” from Georg von Welling’s 
Opus mago-cabalisticum is divided into five 
regions: A and B are the primal elements 
fire (Hebr. esh) and water (mayim), 

C= region of the stars, D = region of the 
air, where the two elements merge into 


Macrocosm: The World 


“shamayim”, the “fiery water of the 
spirit”, which, as the seed of all things, 
reaches the surface of the earth (E) in the 
dew. F = virgin earth, G = subterranean air 
and the red, focal point of the central fire. 


Gregorius Anglus Sallwigt (pseudonym of 


von Welling), Opus mago-cabalisticum, 
Frankfurt, 1719 


47 


The World 


48 


Comparative depiction of cosmological systems 

III. I: the Ptolemaic system (c. A.D. 100—160) with the earth at the 
centre, surrounded by the seven ethereal spheres of the moon, Mer- 
cury, Venus, the sun, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn, which all move in a 
circle around the earth. Above them is the static level of the fixed 
stars and the circles of the zodiac. This system, which contained the 
whole of the age’s astronomical knowledge, continued to predomi- 
nate for more than a millennium, until overturned by the Copernican 
revolution. 

III. Il: For Plato (427—347 B.C.), the cosmos was the image of the 
cosmic soul, rotating on its own axis. He placed the sun directly 
above the moon. 

Ill. III: In the pseudo-Egyptian system adopted by Vitruvius, 
Mercury and Venus revolve around the sun, which in turn, like the 
other planets, revolves around the earth. 

Ills. IV + V: the system put forward by Tycho Brahe in 1580 
emanates from two centres. The sun revolves around the earth, the 
static centre, and is at the same time at the centre of the five other 
planets: “When the sun comes along, all the planets go around 
with it.” 

Ill. VI: 1800 years after the Alexandrian astronomer Aristarchus, 
Copernicus put the sun back at the centre of the world in 1543. His 
cosmological system corresponded to the hermetic vision of the 
upward movement of matter from the outermost coarse state of 
Saturn-lead to the highest level of sublimation, Sun-gold. But much 
more far-reaching were the concepts of the Neoplatonist thinker 
Cardinal Nikolaus of Cusa, known as Cusanus: as early as 1445 he 
reached the conclusion that the earth, rotating on its own axis, 
circled the sun, and that the universe, which Copernicus still saw as 
bounded by a belt of fixed stars, must be infinite. 

His student in spirit Giordano Bruno, who combined the discov- 
eries of Cusanus with speculations on magic, wrote in 1591 of the 
infinity of worlds: “We are no more the centre than any other point in 
the universe”. And, “All things are in the universe and the universe in 
all things”. 


Macrocosm: The World 


j Syflema Piclematcune 
ye Ce aS 


Syftema Jee 


Syflem 


Teonfane FE if, LE 
@ PE 87. SK ee 
wy ou 


a4 Platonicum 


Athanasius Kircher, Iter extaticum, 
Rome, 1671 


Macrocosm: The World 


49 


7 


The World 


50 


Planispheric depiction of the 
Ptolemaic system. 


“The eye of man, who stands on the earth 
(...) organizes the structure of the entire 
universe in the sequence that he per- 
ceives, and in asense places himself at the 
centre of the whole of space. Wherever he 
sends the rays of his gaze, he marvels at 
the work of the heavens, curved with ad- 
mirable roundness (..) and believes that 
the globe is set at the centre of this great 
work.” (Andreas Cellarius) 


Macrocosm: The World 


The illustration shows the Aristotelian 
stratification of the four elements in the 
sublunary region: the globe of the earth 
consists of the heaviest and most impure 
elements of earth and water, then comes 
air, and finally, adjacent to the sphere 

of the moon, is the lightest and purest 
element, fire. 


A. Cellarius, Harmonia Macrocosmica, Ams- 
terdam, 1660 


Spatial depiction of the Ptolemaic system 


‘Most ancient philosophers (...) believed 
(hat the superlunary world, i.e. the ethe- 
real heavens, consisted of several circles 
or spheres, solid and diamond-hard, the 
larger of which contained the smaller. And 
that the stars, like nails set in the wall of a 
hip or some other movable object (...), 

were set in motion by them.” (A. Cellarius) 


\Viacrocosm: The World 


The World 


# 


BYLOTHENLS DRAIOA, 
i conenes Enh ob Fir 


Ze 
Bee 28 we FE 


The outermost, opaque sphere of the 
fixed stars was known as the Primum Mo- 
bile, the “first moved”, because, driven by 
divine love, it caused the motion of all 
other spheres. 


A. Celfarius, Harmonia Macrocosmica, 
Amsterdam, 1660 


51 


The World 


Here, Kircher is 
receiving instruc- 
tion from the an- 
gel Cosmiel, who 
is guiding him on 
an extended 
dream journey 
through the com- 
peting astronomi- 
cal systems. He 
favoured the cos- 
mology of Brahe, 
since he wanted to 
do justice to the 
fundamental ex- 
perience of geo- 
centricity, while at 
the same time 
wanting to give an 
appropriate status 
to the sun which, 
in the hermetic 
view, represents 
the divine in the 
cosmos. 


A. Kircher, Iter 
extaticum 

(Ed. Caspar Schott), 
Wiirzburg, 1671 


52 


fe pxeTATTOUsd a 
<IRCHERIANU ie 
\Preelufionibus g Scholijs® 


jetta, fchematibusg, 
aes 


Li GA. CHE, : 


Macrocosm: The World 


Le 


yom the contradictory systems of Ptolemy 
sid Copernicus, Tycho Brahe createda 
.ynthesis in which he attempted to “give 
greater credence to the geocentric 
«tructure of the world (...). He arranged 
(he position of all the orbits as follows: 
\round the earth, the centre of the entire 
universe, rotates the moon, which, like 
the sun, runs a course concentric to the 
earth. This in turn is the centre of the five 


Macrocosm: The World 


The World 


\ SS Ae 


\ 


other planets, Mercury, Venus, Mars, 
Jupiter and Saturn, which are concentric to 
the sun but eccentric to the earth. Venus 
and Mercury are the sole and constant 
satellites of the sun on its orbit around 
earth (...)” (A. Cellarius) 


A. Cellarius, Harmonia Macrocosmica, Ams- 
terdam, 1660 


53 


The World 


That the earth cannot be regular in shape 
is already apparent in the different begin- 
nings of day and night. And neither can it 
be hollow, because if it were, the sun 
would rise earlier in the west than in the 
east. As a rectangular shape is also 
impossible, only the spherical shape is 
conceivable. 


Elementa Astronomica, Basle, 1655 


Behind the Latinized name Sacrobosco 
stands the English cleric John of Holy- 
wood, whose astronomical textbook 
Sphaera Mundi, published in 1220, was one 
of the most widely read books of its day. 
In it he explains the Ptolemaic view of the 
world, and, along with numerous proofs 
for the spherical shape for the earth, he 
provides proof of the circular orbits of the 
planets and explanations for solar and 
lunar eclipses. 


Johannes de Sacrobosco, Sphaera Mundi, 
Antwerp, 1573 


54 Macrocosm: The World 


SS 


Ta\| 


Hf 
l 


Ss 


NE 


“| remember (...) seeing an Atlas looking 

\t a world whose hoops and rings had 

been broken by Copernicus, where Tycho 
Urahe placed his back beneath the globe, 
anda shouting Ptolemy tried to support 
the round lump, to stop it from falling into 
the void. In the meantime Copernicus was 
breaking many crystal spheres that were 
placed around the globe and was stamping 
out the little lights that flickered in the 


Macrocosm: The World 


The World 


crystal jars.” (de Hooghe, Hieroglyphica, 
Amsterdam, 1744) 


“Sometimes the Earth will spin into the 
Abyss & sometimes stand at the Centre 
and sometimes it spreads flat into broad 
Space.” (William Blake, Jerusalem, 1804) 


Franciscus Aguilonius, Optica, 1611 


55 


Sun 


For Fludd the sun 
is the heart of the 
macrocosm. It is at 
the precise point 
of intersection of 
the two pyramids 
of light and dark- 
ness, inthe 
“sphere of equilib- 
rium’ of form and 
matter. Within it 
dwells the life- 
giving cosmic soul. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 


Cosmi, Vol. 1, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


56 


ii mung? i sDesita dats : & at tine Pe aici ra eg 


| 
i 
| 


Macrocosm: Sun 


Demonttraturhocexperimentum.lib. 1. demotu cap. 
Experimentum II. 
itulto major wis requiriter ad motum alicujus vote 2cenfro (quem motum 4 


principio feu abinteriori appellant) quam ad motum ie vel vie, ; 
feaabexterirequimotusinfinedicitur aig fperficie vel ca ‘Miuferentia 


\Miacrocosm: Sun 


Sun 


Here, Fludd is de- 
fending the geo- 
centric concept of 
the world against 
the new theory of 
Copernicus, which 
he considered 
illogical on the 
grounds that it 
would be much 
simpler for the 
prime mover or 
God the creator to 
rotate the wheel 
of the spheres 
from the rim than 
forasuntodoso 
from the centre. 


For Fludd, the 
mechanical centre 
of the universe 
remained the 
earth, while the 
spiritual centre 
was the sun. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 


Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


57 


Sun 


58 


. COPERNI 


For the mystic and astronomer Kepler, the 
relationship of the seven spheres of the 
planets in the Copernican system to their 
centre, the sun, was identical to “that of 
the various discursive thought processes 
to simple intellectual insight” (Harmonices 
Mundi, Linz, 1619, Leipzig edition, 1925) 


In 1507, through his investigations into the 


reasons for the imprecisions of the calen- 
dar of the time, Copernicus reached the 


Macrocosm: Sun 


Systema. 
TIVS CREATI 


conclusion that the calendar charts would 
be improved if they were produced on the 
basis of a heliocentric conception of the 
world. He was able to refer to a number of 
classical astronomers and philosophers, 
such as Aristarchos of Samos (c. 300 B.C.), 
Heraclides Ponticus, Nicetas of Syracuse 
and Ecpantus the Pythagorean. 


A. Cellarius, Harmonia Macrocosmica, 
Amsterdam, 1660 


At the centre of all things resides the sun. 
Could we find a better place in this most 
beautiful of all temples, from whence this 
light illuminates all things at once? Rightly 
is it called the lamp, the spirit, the ruler of 
(he universe. For Hermes Trismegistus it is 
the invisible god, Sophocles’ Elektra calls 


Macrocosm: Sun 


Sun 


| pitt 
[somata 


¥\ 


it the all-seeing. Thus, the sun sits on its 
royal throne and guides its children, which 
circle it.” (N. Copernicus, De revolutionibus 
orbium caelestium, 1543) 


A. Celfarius, Harmonia Macrocosmica, 
Amsterdam, 1660 


59 


Sun 


In the Renaissance, 
the translations 
by Marsilio Ficino 
(1433-1499) of 
the Corpus Her- 
meticum revived 
the cult of the sun 
based on the an- 
cient Egyptian mys- 
teries. For Ficino 
the sun embodied, 
in descending or- 
der, God, divine 
light, spiritual en- 
lightenment and 
physical warmth. 
In this illustration, 
Fludd shows God 
placing his taber- 
nacle in the sun at 
the beginning of 
creation, and thus 
illuminating and 
breathing life into 
the entire cosmos. 


R. Fludd, 


Philosophia sacra, 
Frankfurt, 1626 


60 


Macrocosm: Sun 


Macrocosm: Sun 


Sun 


“The sublimity and 
perfection of the 
macrocosmic sun 

is clearly revealed 
when royal Pheobus 
sits at the very 
centre of the sky 

in his triumphal 
chariot, his golden 
hair fluttering. 

He is the only visi- 
ble ruler, holding in 
his hands the royal 
sceptre and gov- 
erning the whole 
world (...). (Fludd, 
Mosaicall Philoso- 
phy, London, 1659) 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 


Cosmi, Vol I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


61 


Sun 


In Masonic sym- 
bolism, the sun 
represents the im- 
perishable spirit, 
immaterial gold. 
In many Masonic 
temples it is drawn 
in the east, from 
where the ‘Master 
of the Lodge’ dir- 
ects proceedings. 


A Freemason, 
formed from the 
materials of his 
lodge, engraving, 
1754 


62 


Macrocosm: Sun 


eed boos J - 
Yh hc Wlale rity ff henLodgio 
hold a Master-Mason FONE i 
Ws Genre myltic Portrait Has Meedicre 
athe Seerels of Exee Mafonny, 


ate for all le VU HE SCT 


i Bain f : 
: | iblerled womans to tlobgp Lirtoon! (high (59685 Ly NSaiayhtn ss Culley lisgal bavheige Pits 64 volun FE 


PrN WUEeg seat suindel cad nscale oe we 


Macrocosm: Sun 


Christ-Apollo at 
the centre of the 
zodiac. The outer 
circles contain the 
four seasons. 


Christ in the Zodiac, 


Northern Italy, 
71th century 


63 


Moon 


According to its 
position in relation 
to the sun and the 
earth, the area 

of the moon lit by 
the sun appears 
in periodically 
changing forms: 
waxing from the 
invisible new 
moon through the 
first quarter (half 
moon) to the full 
moon (bottom), 
then waning 
through the final 
quarter back to 
the new moon 
(top). 


A. Cellarius, 
Harmonia Macro- 
cosmica, Amster- 
dam, 1660 


64 


The views of the 
phases of the 
moon seen from 
the sun and the 
earth. 


A. Kircher, Mundus 
Subterreaneus, 
Amsterdam, 1678 


Macrocosm: Moon 


East “As the moon 
Breaking of Strength 
22 


passes through 
the whole of the 
zodiac in twenty- 
eight days, the 
most ancient as- 
trologers assumed 
that there were 
twenty-eight 
stages (...) Within 
these twenty-eight 
stages lie many of 
the secrets of the 
15 South ancients, miracu- 
Complete lously affecting all 
Subjectivity things beneath the 
moon.” (Agrippa 
of Nettesheim, De 
occulta philosophia, 
1510) 


assivity 


North 1 
Complete 
Objectivity 


Bi 
a) 
a 
» 
wu 
rs 
wv 


From: W.B. Yeats, 
A Vision, London 
1925 


8 
West 
Discovery of Strength 


“This wheel is every completed movement 
of thought or life, twenty-eight incarna- 
tions, a single incarnation, a single judge- 
ment or act of thought.” (W.B. Yeats, 

A Vision, 1925) 


Yeats’ diagram, derived from Blake’s theo- 
ries of cycles and of the four essences 
(Zoas), also functions as a theory of types, 
in the manner of Gurdjieff’s enneagram. 


The Great Wheel, Speculum Angelorum et 
Hominum, in: W.B. Yeats, A Vision, London 
1962 


Macrocosm: Moon 65 


Moon 


On the images of the head and tail of the moon dragon: “The an- 
cients also made an image of the head and tail of the moon dragon, 
the figure of a serpent with a hawk’s head between an airy and fiery 
circle, after the form of the Greek capital letter theta. They made 
this image when the head of Jupiter occupied the centre of the sky, 
and they attributed to it great influence on the success of petitions; 
they also intended it to designate the good and lucky demon which 
they represented in the form of 
a serpent. The Egyptians and 
Phoenicians placed this creature 
above all others and saw its 
nature as divine because it has a 
sharper mind and a greater fire 
than the others. This is due both 
to its rapid movement without 
feet, hands or other tools, and 
the fact that it frequently renews 
its age with the sloughing of its 
skin, and rejuvenates itself. - 
They made a similar image of 
the dragon’s tail when the moon 
had disappeared in the dragon's 
tail, or occupied an unfavourable position in relation to Saturn or 
Mars.” (Agrippa of Nettesheim, De occulta philosophia, 1510) 


66 Macrocosm: Moon 


Macrocosm: Moon 


Moon 


A paraphrase of 
Diirer’s “Melenco- 
lia”. The bird’s 
head is possibly 
based on an illus- 
tration of the 
moon dragon 
from Agrippa’s 
De occulta philo- 
sophia. 


Blake had a special 
relationship to- 
wards the moon, 
as the ascendant 
in his horoscope 
was in the sign of 
Cancer, which is 
related to the 
moon. Thus 28, 
the number of the 
completed cycle 
of the moon, is of 
great importance 
in his mythology: 
it signifies the sur- 
mounting of 
traditional ideas 
through the act of 
free creation, 
when the muses of 
fantasy are illum- 
inated by the sun 
of imagination. 


W. Blake, 


Jerusalem, 
1804—1820 


67 


Moon 


Chart for the 
calculation of the 
daily rising and 
setting of the 
moon and the de- 
gree of its waxing 
and waning. Inthe 
outer circle: the 
28 phases of the 
moon. 


A. Kircher, Ars 


magna lucis, 
Amsterdam, 1677 


68 


Macrocosm: Moon 


pie 
Michelet 
Mi) micator ¢empora rebus 
Sotet, vere dam caner hin 


Dine 
Upt Faani pal NOR Teydarediebus 


\)lan's Astronomicum Caesareum is consid- 
ed Lo be the last standard astronomical 
ork based on the geocentric view of the 

iiverse. It consists of a series of concen- 

‘1, cardboard discs moved with threads, 

vid from which the interested layman was 

‘ble to read the arithmetical values and 

» (ronomical constellations as on the face 


factock. 


Macrocosm: Moon 


Kepler mocked this “string-pulling”: “Who 
will give me a spring of tears, that | may 
admire the lamentable industry of Apianus, 
who, relying upon Ptolemy, wasted so 
many hours representing a whole labyrinth 
of interlocking twists and turns.” 


Peter Apian, Astronomicum Caesareum, 
Ingolstadt, 1540 


Moon 


69 


Moon 


This disc from 
Apian’s Astronom- 
icum Caesareum 
enables the user 
to calculate the 
position of the 
ascending lunar 
node ona particu- 
lar date. 


The two points of 
intersection of the 
moon’s orbit and 
the ecliptic are 
called lunar nodes 
or “dragon 
points”. The 
ascending node is 
the head of the 
dragon, the 
descending one its 
tail. Both points 
play an important 
part in the calcula- 
tion of the calen- 
dar, and were used 
in classical astron- 
omy, chiefly for 
the calculation of 
solar and lunar 
eclipses. 


P. Apian, 
Astronomicum 
Caesareum, Ingol- 
stadt, 1540 


7O 


Macrocosm: Moon 


erie 
/ 


~ 


re 
ne 


AA 


cin 


LY 
ey 


Chart for the calculation of solar and lunar 
eclipses. According to ancient legends, 
these were due to a dragon swallowing 
the heavenly bodies and spewing them 
out again. 


Macrocosm: Moon 


Moon 


A. Kircher, Ars magna lucis, Amsterdam, 1677 


The eternal recurrence of the sevenfold 
division of the universe as a river of space 
and time. 


Manuscript, Rajasthan, 19th century 


71 


Cosmic time 


According to 
medieval calcula- 
tions, one cosmic 
year equalled 
15,000 sun years. 
“It is completed 
when all the stars 
find their way 
back to a particu- 
lar place.” In Politi- 
cos Plato calls it 
the “great year of 
the ancients”: 
when its revolu- 
tions have passed 
through the ap- 
propriate length 
of time, it turns 
around again, i. e. 
time now runs in 
the opposite di- 
rection, rejuvenat- 
ing itself on its 
path. 


According to mod- 
ern calculations, 
the duration of 
the “great” year is 
25,868 years, the 
time the point of 
spring takes to 
cross the entire 
zodiac. 


Lambert of 


St Omer, Liber 
Floridus, c. 1120 


72 


Macrocosm: Cosmic time 


Cosmic time 


- 
a 


“sioun 


repleta 


syqeak 


eaee 


Crra manis et Vacu™ 


feu potentia diuind- 


“Mirror of the causes of all things” Platonic graded cosmos and, in the inner 
circle, are the Tria Prima, the three funda- 

All of creation opens up like a fan from the mental alchemistic principles of matter. 

night of the hidden, divine source. It pours 

from the outer, paternal circle, the Tetra- The whole plan of creation runs clockwise 

grammaton, into the three Hebrew letters like a day from dawn to the “evening of 

called ‘mothers’: Alef $$ air (avyr), mem? the world”. 

water (mayim) and shin® fire (esh). The 

other circles contain the ten divine names R. Fludd, Integrum Morborum ( 

and aspects, followed by the Christian- Mysterium, Frankfurt, 1631 


Macrocosm: Cosmic time 73 


Cosmic time 


The personifica- 
tion of cosmic 
time, framed by 
the six cosmic ages 
familiar in the 
early Middle Ages. 
The five preceding 
cosmic ages from 
Adam to the birth 
of Christ were un- 
der the domina- 
tion of Lucifer, the 
sixth and present 
age was the King- 
dom of Christ. 


Parallel to this: the 
division of the age 
of man falls into 
six sections from 
childhood to old 
age. 


Lambert of St 
Omer, Liber 
Floridus, c. 1120 


74 


Macrocosm: Cosmic time 


». 2¢ tic fli canpe frcreida- 
Cres parces Rrargnmne 


Sep ndemonfter tnt 


i, 


‘Aud Wude enydentat 


endie-bomine a taut 
Samm carne offibe £ caam cit fan, 
— guihie’s qprrcetty id nacaum et 


rent: 


Pelterge.S; fine af 


Gara Noite Poae MEET 


Carupctone ere dle 
enaura-cnulal 


Macrocosm: Cosmic time 


Cosmic time 


The three cosmic 
ages of Joachim 
of Fiore (c. 1130— 
1202): 


The first age is 
that of the Father 
(bottom), the 

age of the Old 
Testament and is 
formed by the Law 
and by the fear of 
God. The second 
age is that of the 
Son, of the Church 
and of faith in the 
Word. The third 
Age is that of the 
Holy ghost - 
which Joachim of 
Fiore saw drawing 
near — and is the 
time of jubilation 
and freedom. It 
brings with ita 
new intuitive and 
symbolic under- 
standing of the 
Scriptures, the 
end of the “walled 
church” and the 
foundation of new 
contemplative 
orders. 


This spiritual age 
is the dawn that 
Jacob Bohme and 
the alchemists saw 
rising on the hori- 
zon, the general 
reformation of the 
Rosicrucians. 


Joachim of Fiore, 
qath century 


75 


Lower 
astronomy 


76 


In the view of the alchemists, the metals 
represent the assembled forces of the 
planets, and hence they also referred to 
their art as the “lower astronomy”. In 
accordance with the twelve divisions of 
the zodiac, the material must pass through 
twelve gates or stages, until it reaches its 
definitive fixity in reddening, when “the 
zodiac no longer has any power over it”. 
(Nicolas Flamel) 


Macrocosm: Lower astronomy 


The author of the Aurora consurgens com- 
pares this growth in the lapis with the 
nine-month development of the embryo in 
its mother’s womb. According to George 
Ripley (1415-1490), the water that breaks 
at birth is symbolized by the white or lunar 
tincture that precedes the solar reddening 
(above right). 


Aurora consurgens, late 14th century 


Macrocosm: Stars 


Stars 


Twelve pagan as- 
trologers (includ- 
ing the poet Virgil 
and the philo- 
sophers Seneca 
and Aristotle) 
immersed in the 
interpretation of 
the stars. 


Book of oracles in 
rhyming couplets, 
Central Germany, 
14th century 


77 


Stars 


78 


The horoscope (literally “hour-watch”), 
the record of the constellations at the 
moment of birth, is the expression of be- 
lief in man’s entanglement in fate and 


predestination. 


“The horoscope is that ‘handwriting’ of 


Macrocosm: Stars 


which it is said (Paul, Col. II, 14) that He 
(Christ) cancelled the bond (...) He set 
these cosmic powers and authorities to 
the side, nailing them to the cross.” (C.G. 
Jung, Mysterium coniunctionis, Zurich, 1968) 


Daniel Cramer, Emblemata Sacra, 1617 


Macrocosm: Stars 


Stars 


The horoscope 
pictures are taken 
from the so-called 
“Heidelberg Book 
of Fate” (end of 
15th century), a 
German transla- 
tion of the Astro- 
labium planum of 
Petrus of Abano 
(13th century). 


Each of the twelve 
signs of the zodiac 
is divided into 
three decans and 
thirty degrees. 
The book also con- 
tained charts for 
determining the 
ascendant and the 
degree of the zo- 
diac rising on the 
eastern horizon at 
the time of birth, 
the knowledge of 
which is the basis 
for drawing up the 
horoscope. 


79 


Stars 


The court astro- 
nomer Terzysko, 
amidst the criss- 
crossing lines 

of astrological 
aspects. The term 
“horoscope” only 
became estab- 
lished in the 
Middle Ages. In 
classical antiquity 


there was a prefer- 


ence for speaking 
of the “theme” 
or the “genesis” 
(Latin “constella- 
tio” and “geni- 
tura”). The estab- 
lishment of the 
angle-relation- 
ships or aspects 
is derived from 
Pythagorean har- 
monics. 


Astronomical 
manuscript of 
Wenceslas IV, 
Prague, 1400 


80 


in?2 


“Be 
03 
sony. 


33 2 


i) 


: pam 


Macrocosm: Stars Macrocosm: Stars 


Stars 


Planisphere with 
constellations and 
signs of the zodiac, 
manuscript, 16th 
century 


81 


02 


The “southern starry sky of the ancients” 
with the familiar constellations of Greek 
mythology. 

In Giordano Bruno’s satire The Dethrone- 
ment of the Beast, published in 1584, Zeus 
personally orders that these heavenly im- 
ages be replaced by virtues: “Obvious and 
naked to the eyes of men are our vices, 
and the heavens themselves bear witness 


Macrocosm: Stars 


to our misdeeds. Here are the fruits, the 
relics, the history of our adulteries, incest, 
whoring, our passions, robberies and sins. 
For to crown our error we have raised the 
triumphs of vice to heaven, and made it 
the home of lawlnessness.” 


A. Celfarius, Harmonia Macrocosmica, 
Amsterdam, 1660 


{his depiction of a” Christian starry sky” 
\) based on an original by Julius Schiller 
(Augsburg 1627), who considered it incom- 
patible with his faith “to assign to the 

(ars the meanings of evil spirits, animals 
snc sinful people”, when the Bible has 
\| The wise leaders shall shine as the 
hright vault of heaven, and those who have 
juided the people in the true path shall 


Macrocosm: Stars 


be like the stars for ever and ever.” 

(Daniel 12, 3). 

The “Little Bear” has become the Archangel 
Michael, the “Great Bear” the boat of St 
Peter, and the constellation “Andromeda” 
the tomb of Christ. 


A. Cellarius, Harmonia Macrocosmica, 
Amsterdam, 1660 


83 


Music of 


the spheres 


fF. Gafturio, 
Theorica musica, 
Milan, 1492 


fla 


YS 


The theory of the harmony of the spheres dates back to the Greek 
philosopher Pythagoras (570—496 B.C.). 

According to a legend told by lambilochos, when Pythagoras 
heard the different sound made by hammers ina forge, he realized 
that tones can be expressed in quantitative relationships, and hence 
in numerical values and geometrical measures. Using stringed 
instruments, he then discovered the connection between vibration 


PITAGORAS| 22 PY 


frequencies and pitch. The whole world, according 
to Pythagoras’ theory, consisted of harmony and 
number. Both the microcosmic soul and the macro- 
cosmic universe were assembled according to ideal 
proportions, which can be expressed in a sequence 
of tones. 

The pitches of the individual planetary tones 
of the celestial scale were derived from their 
orbital speeds, and the distances between them 
were placed in relationship to the musical intervals. 
Kepler complicated the system somewhat by assign- 
ing a whole sequence of tones to each planet. The 
series that he believed he had found for the earth 
(Mi Fa Mi) came to represent for him, shortly after 
the outbreak of the Thirty Years’ War, the fact “that 
Misere and Fames (hunger) rule in our vale of tears” 


According to Genesis 4, 21, Jubal (ill. top left), a descendant of 


Music of 
the spheres 


In the bottom 
left-hand corner, 
Pythagoras is 
pointing to the 
smiths who had in- 
spired him. Here 
they are at work 
inside an ear. 
Kircher goes into 
great detail about 
its ‘wonderful 
anatomical pre- 
paration’, with 
hammer and anvil. 


According to the 
theorist of Neo- 
platonic music, 
Boethius, (5th 
century A.D.), 
terrestrial ‘musica 
instrumentalis’ is 
but a shade of the 
“musica mundana’, 
the music of the 
spheres repres- 
ented by the 
sphere at the 
centre. This in turn 
is merely a faint 
echo of the divine 
music of the nine 
choirs of angels. 


A. Kircher, 
Musurgia univer- 


Cain, was the father of all such as handle the harp and organ”. For 
Kepler, this figure is none other than Apollo, and Kepler also believed 
that Pythagoras was Hermes Trismegistus. 


salis, Rome, 1650 


Macrocosm: Music of the spheres Macrocosm: Music of the spheres 85 


Music of 
the spheres 


The assignment of 
the nine spheres to 
the nine Muses 
was the result of a 
harmonic vision by 
the Neo-Pythago- 
rean, Martianus 
Capella (5th cen- 
tury A.D.). The 
scale covers a full 
octave, 


The concord is con- 
ducted by Apollo, 
the Prime Mover. 
Flowing rhythmi- 
cally through the 
spheres is the 
Ugyptian serpent 
of the life-force. 
Its three heads 
represent the 
divine trinity in the 
three dimensions 
of space and the 
three aspects of 
time, 


Tragedy is as- 
siqned to the sun, 
comedy to the 
earth, 


A. Kircher, Ars 


magna lucis, Rome, 
1065 


a6 


Macrocosm: Music of the spheres 


Macrocosm: Music of the spheres 


Music of 
the spheres 


According to 
Fludd, “the mono- 
chord is the inter- 
nal principle 
which, from the 
centre of the 
whole, brings 
about the har- 
mony of all life in 
the cosmos.” 


By altering the 
tension of the 
strings, God, the 
“Great Chord”, is 
able to determine 
the density of all 
materials between 
Empyreum and 
Earth. 


The instrument is 
divided in half into 
an upper, ideal, 
active octave and 
a lower, material, 
passive octave, 
and these are in 
turn divided into 
fourths and fifths. 
On these intervals 
the upper, prin- 
ciple of light 
moves down into 
dark matter, and at 
their intersection 
the sun assumes 
the power of 
transformation. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 


Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


87 


Music of 
the spheres 


a8 


“The ancient philosophers assumed that 
the world consisted of a perfect harmony, 
namely, from the earth to the starry 
heavens is a perfect octave.” (A. Kircher, 
Musurgia universalis). The seven steps of 
the octave were seen as containing the 
world, for it is the number seven that links 
the divine trinity to the quadernity of the 
elements. In 1922 the Caucasian philo- 
sopher and dancing teacher G. Gurdjieff 
founded his famous “Institute for the 
Harmonic Education of Man” in Fontaine- 
bleau, based on the law of the octave. 


Trismegistus in Asclepius: “Music is noth- 
ing but knowing the order of all things.” 


For Kepler there was no doubt “that either 
Pythagoras speaks in a Hermetic way or 
Hermes in a Pythagorean way.” 
(Harmonices Mundi) 


A. Kircher, Musurgia universalis, Rome, 1650 


“In every line of development there are 
two points where movement can go no 
further without external help. At two 
specific points an additional impulse from 
an external force is necessary. At these 
points everything needs an impulse, 
otherwise it can move no further. We find 
this “law of the seven” everywhere - in 
chemistry, in physics, etc.: the same law is 
at work in all things. The best example of 
this law is the structure of the scale. Let us 
clarify this with an octave.” 

(Gurdjieff’s Conversations, Basle, 1982) 


Reconstruction of the Pythagorean cos- 
mos according to the plan of the octave. 


Stanley, History of Philosophy 


Macrocosm: Music of the spheres 


a 
ay 2h 
vi 


Gass 


4 


finer 


dor S 
Sphire de Flxaterney 


ff fags OS ssavae hh G& St ae 


{eS 


Gis Gis AN Hi dd: es h ¥ ene 
r hd rd a id 7 ¢ yu Thaaeukusehe: 
pri a Hi Po g at err an z : i E f i Cheon der 
Tote FR 5 i ; A Rg cress a 8B gE Moe) i 
B oe tas diayetkitncler é E a of 2 
es Chroma der Mv} e £ 


r dor mixalvdischen Oomyengainned, Hl 

4 aeleatars H 

(h Gls Gis» » BAH ccrcisdes od fae ee efiss &f*Eis Sie 
7 


newt 
yh 


/he harmonic symbolism of antiquity by 
Albert Freiherr v. Thimus (1806—1878) is a 
Jarge-scale attempt to reconstruct the 
'ythagorean foundations of music from 
Neoplatonic sources, and to establish 
Harmonics as an autonomous science. He 
Hased his work on the untenable hypothe- 

is that the Pythagorean concept of the 
world was based on the Cabalistic book of 
creation. The Sefer Yezirah is about the 
ten primal numbers, the Sephiroth, which 
hie linked in the upper part of the diagram 
to the planetary orbits. 


Macrocosm: Music of the spheres 


ys 


Der dagivchen Ochivendiayurd. 
i bs | | 
as asvane b bh (0GGd @ d UaaS a fila 86° Rah 


Ay jy 


yo 
wees 


7 wrt 
vn Ste der Fixs 


The Pythagorean Philolaos (c. 400 B.C.) 
referred to a counter-earth, which fol- 
lowed the same orbit as the earth, but was 
always on the opposite side and therefore 
invisible. Both bodies orbited around the 
central fire. 


Albert Freiherr v. Thimus, Die harmonikale 
Symbolik des Altertums, Cologne, 1868 


Music of 
the spheres 


89 


Genesis 


go 


According to Pythagoras, the structure of 
the world is based on the consonant inter- 
vals of the octave, the fifth and the fourth. 
The numbers of their proportions 2:1, 

3:2 and 4:3 are the ‘holy diversity’ of the 
Pythagoreans, called the tetractys: 
1424+3+4=10. “Progress from oneness to 
the number four and the ten emerges, the 
mother of all things.” 


Within this formula lies the entire act of 
creation, from the splitting of the primal 
element into sexual duality, its propaga- 
tion into the space-forming trinity, 
through to its completion in the four ele- 
ments. 


Robert Fludd, Philosophia Sacra, 
Frankfurt, 1626 


The tetractys also forms the basis of the 
image of the cosmic soul, to whose struc- 
ture in the form of a Chi (X) Plato refers in 
the ‘Timaeus’. In line with the law of the 
proportional division of the chord, the 
matrix of all earthly phenomena unfolds 
here as a network of coordinates of frac- 
tions and multiples. 


The Pythagorean ‘Chi’ 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


In the Cabala, the work of creation unfolds 
according to a similar pattern, in four 
steps starting with the letters of the tetra- 
grammaton, the unpronounceable divine 
name: in alchemy too this fourfold step, 
the “axiom of Maria Prophetissa’, plays a 
leading part. 


The tetragrammaton as a tetractys 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


Genesis 


In the Tantric vi- 
sion, an invisible 
power-point 
(bindu) produces 
the primal matter 
(prakriti), which 
consists of three 
qualities (gunas): 
sattva (essence, 
peace), rajas (en- 
ergy, passion) and 
tamas (substance, 
inertia). 


At the beginning 
of creation the 
three are in equi- 
librium; only their 
disharmony brings 
forth the world of 
diversity. 


In Finnegans Wake 
Joyce draws a par- 
allel between the 
gunas and Blake’s 
four beings (Zoas, 
cf. pp. 524-525) 


Painting, 


Rajasthan, c. 18th 
century 


91 


Genesis 


92 


The tetragrammaton, the holy name of 
God with the four letters JHVH (Jehova), 
concentrates within itself all of the ele- 
mental strength and power from which 
creation arose. “The visible world, with its 
teeming creatures, is none other than the 
word transpired,” wrote Bohme. All things 
arise out of combinations or rearrange- 
ments of these four letters. 


Illustrating the magical meaning of the 
word in Hebrew, Gershom Scholem 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


SC LOULOIC 


quoted a rabbi’s admonition to a Torah 
writer: “My son, be careful at your work 
for it is God’s work; if you leave out but 
one letter or write but one letter too 
many, you destroy the whole world (...)”. 
(G. Scholem, On the Kabbalah and its ; 
Symbols, New York, 1967) 


Sephardi Bible, 1385 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


‘\ Ny 
I Wy 


Genesis 


Successive utter- 
ances of the divine 
name produce 

the four worlds 

of Aziluth, Beriah, 
Yezirah and Assiya. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. Il, 
Frankfurt, 1627 


From the great 
tetragrammaton 
flow the ten 
“epithets” of God. 
These embody 
various aspects 
of the godhead, 
whichin turn 
correspond to the 
ten primal num- 
bers, the Sephiroth: 
1. Crown 

2. Wisdom 

3. Prudence 

4. Clemency 

5. Power 

6. Grace 

7. Triumph 

8. Honour (Fame) 
g. Redemption 
10. Kingdom. 


R. Fludd, 


Philosophia Sacra, 
Frankfurt, 1626 


93 


Genesis 


And so on for ever 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


94 


For the Paracelsian Robert Fludd, the 
divine act of creation took on concrete 
and visible form as an alchemical process, 
in which God, as a spagyrist, divided pri- 
mal, dark chaos, the Prima Materia, into 
the three divine, primary elements of 
light, darkness and spiritual waters. These 
waters, in turn, were the roots of the four 
Aristotelian elements, of which earth is 
the coarsest and the heaviest, comparable 
to the dark sediment, the “raven’s head” 
that is left on the bottom of the retort in 
the process of distillation. 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


No wonder, wrote Fludd, that our planet is 
such a vale of tears, given that it has 
emerged from the sediment of creation, 
where the devil dwells. 

“When the secret of secrets wished to 
reveal himself, he began to produce a 
point of light. Before that point of light 
broke through and became apparent, the 
infinite (en soph) was entirely hidden and 
radiated no light.” (Zohar) 


R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


Genesis 


Light, the inex- 
haustible source 
of all things, ap- 
pears in the dark- 
ness and with it 
the watery spirits 
that begin to 
divide into near 
(bright) and far 
(dark). 


In the centre are 
the dark waters, 
far from the light, 
forming the source 
of matter; at the 
edge are the up- 
per waters, from 
which the divine 
fiery heaven 
(Empyreum) will 
unfold. The bright 
cloud in between 
is astate “called 
variously the 
Earth-spirit, the 
Spirit of Mercury, 
the Ether and the 
Quintessence.” 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 


Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


95 


Genesis 


The chaos of the 
elements from 
the lower waters 
“is a confused and 
uncligested mass 
in which the four 
elements fight 
against each 
other.” 


The ideal final 
state of material 
is achieved when 
the elements are 
arranged accord- 
ing to the degrees 
of their density: 
(from outside to 
inside) Earth, Wa- 
ter, Air and Fire. In 
the centre appears 
the Sun, gold. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. f, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


96 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


Genesis 


The first day of 
creation: 


“Let there be 
light, said God; 
and forthwith 
Light/(...) Sprung 
from the deep; 
and from her 
native east/ To 
journey through 
the aery gloom 
began,/ Sphered 
ina radiant cloud, 
for yet the sun/ 
Was not (...).” 
Gohn Milton, 
Paradise Lost 1667) 


The dove is the 
spirit of God. 


“The uncreated 
light of the spirit 
reflected in the 
sphere of the fiery 
firmament as ina 
mirror, and the 
reflections in their 
turn, are the first 
manifestations of 
created light.” 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


97 


Genesis 


The earth belongs 
to the lowest level 
of the elements, 
the sediment of 
creation. 


According to the 
proportions, the 
grossest element 
couples with the 
most subtle when 
the elements of 
air and water are 
produced. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. L, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


98 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


Genesis 


The second day 


“And God said, Let there be a vault 
between the waters to separate wa- 
ter from water (...) And God called the 
vault Heaven.” (Genesis 1, 6 and 8) 


The ethereal sphere with the fixed 
stars and planets divides the upper 
waters (Empyreum) from the lower. 
In this sphere the upper heavenly 
quality (form) is in balance with the 
lower heavenly quality (material). 


The third day 


Fire arises as the first and most 
subtle element. 


This is not, as Fludd stressed, the 
‘invisible fire’ of the alchemists, but 
the material fire that Paracelsus 
called the ‘dark’ fire, which leads 
everything alive to destruction. Life 
in the Paracelsian sense is a process 
of destruction by fire. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. [, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


99 


Genesis 


The sequence by 
which the ele- 
ments are ordered 
in an ascending 
degree of purity — 
earth, water, air 
and fire — is 
repeated in the 
structure of the 
entire cosmos 
from the sublu- 
nary, elemental 
heavens, the ethe- 
real heaven to the 
empyrean. 


The stars on the 
outer edge of the 
ethereal sphere 
only became 
visible with the 
creation of the 
sun, for they store 
its light and after a 
space of time emit 
it again like phos- 
phorous. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. 1, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


100 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


} 
i 
¥ 


Genesis 


“The perturba- 
tions attendant 
on creation had 
caused some of 
the celestial light 
to be trapped in 
the cold mass of 
the central earth. 
Obeying the law 
of gravity, this 
celestial substance 
began to rise 
towards its right- 
ful place in the 
heavens, and it 
was thus that our 
sun was formed.” 


i 


In the firmament 
the sun is the 
visible represent- 
ative of the divine 
fire and of love. Its 
corresponding 
part in the human 
body is the heart, 
“which emits its 
vital rays (the 
veins) ina circle 
from the centre, 
and thus animates 
each individual 
limb”. (Robert 
Fludd, Philosophi- 
call Key, c. 1619) 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


101 


Genesis 


When the sinking, 
hot rays of the sun 
encounter rising, 
watery steam, 
they condense and 
give rise to the 
planets. 


The spirit of God 
hovers as a dove 
above perfect 
creation, which is 
already menaced 
by the Fall. In the 
‘Tractatus apolo- 
geticus’, Fludd 
emphasized that 
the chief goal of 
macrocosmic 
study must be to 
study the role of 
the divine spirit in 
creation, for with- 
out the light ema- 
nating from this 
spirit, life is not 
possible. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. 1, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


102 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


Cosmological depiction of the alchemisti- 
cal Work in the form of an eyeball. From 
(he pupil, the macrocosmic chaos of four 
elements, the spherical lapis emerges as 
the renewed, smaller world. The arms that 
jaise it up are “the two major parts of the 
Work, the dissolution of the body (solve) 
ind the hardening of the spirit (coagula)”. 
{tec and white water pours from the rebis, 
the twofold aspect of material, to form 
(he viscose, vitreous body of the cosmic 
eye, the sea of time and space. 


Macrocosm: Eye 


The bird represents the phases of the 
Work. It is composed of the raven (putre- 
factio), the swan (albedo), the peacock 
(phase of bright colours) and the phoenix 
(rubedo). 


In this instance the Pythagorean tetraktys 
forms the optic nerve. 


H. Khunrath, Amphitheatrum 
sapientiae aeterna, 1602 


Eye 


103 


Eye 


In the medieval 
view, the eye con- 
sisted of three dif- 
ferent forms of 
condensation of 
physical fluid. 
According to the 
theory of the Ara- 
bian scholar Avi- 
cenna (980-1037), 
an icy fluid forms 
the centre of the 
eye. In front of it is 
the watery area, 
behind it the crys- 
talline area. It is 
clad in seven robes 
or skins (tunicas), 
to which the seven 
planetary spheres 
correspond in 

the macrocosm. 
The Cabalists con- 
nected this ten- 
part structure of 
the eye with the 
Sephiroth. The 
blind spot was a 
term applied to 
the highest 
Sephira “Kether”, 
the crown, or the 
divine void in all 
things. 


Gregor Reisch, 
Pretiosa Margarita, 
Freiburg, 1503; 
Basle, 1508 


104 


Macrocosm: Eye 


(...) the eye of man (is) an image of the 
world and all the colours in it are arranged 
in circles. The white of the eye corres- 
ponds to the ocean, which surrounds the 
whole world on all sides; a second colour 
is the mainland, which the ocean sur- 
rounds, or which lies between the waters; 

\ third colour in the middle region: 
Jerusalem, the centre of the world. Buta 
fourth colour, the vision of the whole eye 
itself (...) is Zion, the midpoint of every- 
thing, and visible within it is the 

\ppearance of the whole world.” (Zohar) 


& Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. Il, 
Oppenheim, 1619 


Macrocosm: Eye 


Eye 


The composition of the eye according to 
Fludd: 


1. The ice-like, lens-shaped area is trans- 
parent and of medium hardness. 


2. The watery, whitish area surrounds the 
first as the egg-white surrounds the yolk. 


3. The glass-like, gleaming area supplies 
the first two with nourishment from the 


blood. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. Il, 
Oppenheim, 1679 


105 


Eye ADAM SPACE 
(ANATOMY OF EYE) 


CHAMBER OF VITREOUS- 
HUMOR AS BEULAH 


IRIS AS ALLAMANDA 
(POLYPUS) 


CHAMBER OF AQUEOUS 
HUMOR AS BOWLAHOOLA 


POINT OF FOCUS 
AS COUCH OF SATAN 


MUNDANE EGG. 


SATAN SPACE 
(PERCEIVED SPACE) 


Large parts of William Blake’s poetry are 
concerned with a detailed engagement 
with Isaac Newton's materialist view of 
the world, particularly his optics. In Blake’s 
view the physical eye is dull and dim “like 
a black pebble in a churning sea”, and 

the optic nerve, to which Newton pays 
homage, “builds stone bulwarks against 
the raging sea”. (Blake, Milton, 1804) 
Blake instead turned to the work of Jacob 
Bohme, and attempted to develop an 
optics of the visionary. 


106 Macrocosm: Eye 


Mec 


PAS 


RETINA AS EDEN 


LINES OF PERCEPTION AS VORTEX 


CONVEXITY OF LENS. 
AS ROCK OF AGES 


LENS AS GOLGONOOZA 
(CONCAVITY) 


LENS AS MUNDANE SHELL 
MICROCOSM 


UDAN-ADAN 
ENTUTHON 


BENYTHON, 
ULRO 


LINES OF PERCEPTION 
AS VORTEX 


According to the hypothesis of Easson and 
Easson, which fails to take into account 
many aspects of the poetry, every level of 
Blake’s poem ‘Milton’ is based on an 
optical model, inscribed within the form 
of the cosmic egg. 


K.P. Easson and R.R. Easson, A hypothetical 
model for the visionary geography in 
‘Milton’, from: W. Blake, Milton, London, 
1979 


The astronomer and mathematician John 
Dee (1527—1608) used the egg as a glyph 
for the ethereal heavens, because the 
orbit of the planets within it forms an oval. 
(Even Copernicus assumed that planetary 
orbits were circular.) 


For Paracelsus “the sky is a shell which 
separates the world and God’s heaven 
from one another, as does the shell the 
egg”. “The yolk represents the lower 
sphere, the white the upper; the yolk: 
earth and water, the white: air and fire”. 
(Paragranum, 1530) 


John Dee, Monas Hieroglyphica, Antwerp, 
1564 


Macrocosm: Cosmic egg 


Z YS 


Lele tll de. 
fs 


Cosmic egg 


The four intersect- 
ing globes are in- 
scribed with the 
names of the four 
Zoas, the apoca- 
lyptic creatures 
that represent the 
elemental forces 
of the universe. 
Urthona/Los is 

the imagination, 
Luvah passion, 
Urizen reason and 
Tharmas the body. 


“The egg-shaped 
world of Los”, 
which swells from 
the swirling centre 
of chaos, forms 
the illusory three- 
dimensional space 
defined by the 
two boundaries of 
opacity (Satan) 
and material con- 
densation (Adam). 
They obstruct 
man’s free vision 
of things as they 
really are accord- 
ing to Blake, 
namely eternal 
and infinite. 


W. Blake, Milton, 
1804-1808 


107 


Cosmic egg 


Hildegard von Bin- 
gen’s vision of the 
cosmos 


“Then | saw a huge 
object, round and 
shadowy. Like an 
egg it was pointed 
at the top (...). 

Its surrounding, 
outer layer was 
bright fire (Empy- 
reum). Beneath 
this lay a dark skin. 
In the bright fire 
hovered a reddish, 
sparkling fireball 
{the Sun)": Beneath 
the dark skin she 
saw the ethereal 
sphere with moon 
and stars, and 
beneath this a zone 
of mist which she 
called the ‘white 
skin’ or the ‘upper 
water’. 


Hildegard von 
Bingen, Scivias 
(Rupertsberg 
Codex), 

ath century 


108 


Macrocosm: Cosmic egg 


lie genesis of the world of the elements 
etween the celestial world of light and 
jie chaotic underworld. Johann J. Becher 
16351682) described the interplay of the 
Jements as follows: “Earth thickens and 
\(tvacts, water breaks down and purifies, 
\\) makes fluid and dries, fire divides and 
ompletes”. 


Macrocosm: Cosmic egg 


i. 


Fe 
‘CAO TE 


MMM ie 
RR=AQUA: 


The engraving is inspired by illustrations 
from Kircher’s Mundus subterreaneus 

(2 vols, 1665, 1678) (cf. p. 163). These show 
a subterranean central fire linked directly 
to volcanoes and underground waters 
which feed the superterrestrial seas. 


J.J. Becher, Opuscula chymica, Nuremberg, 
1719 


Cosmic egg 


109 


Opus MAGNUM 


In reference to the divine work of creation 
and the plan of salvation within it, the alchemistic 
process was called the ‘Great Work’. Init, 

a mysterious chaotic source material called 
materia prima, containing opposites still 
incompatible and in the most violent conflict, is 
gradually guided towards a redeemed state of 
perfect harmony, the healing ‘Philosophers’ Stone’ 
or lapis phifosophorum: “First we bring together, 
then we putrefy, we break down what has been 
putrified, we purify the divided, we unite the 
purified and harden it. In this way is One made from 
man and woman.” 

(Biichlein vom Stein der Weisen, 1778) 


Genesis 
in the retort 


112 


“It ascends/ saith Hermes Trismegistus in his Emerald Tablet/ from 
Earth to Heaven: by which words the circulating distillation is most 
beautifully explained/ as also this/ that the Chymical Vessel/ is made 
or arranged in the same way as the natural Vessel. For we see/ or 
find/ that the whole Heavens/ and the Elementa are like a sphere 
round and sweet in nature/ in whose mid-point or innermost essence 
the heat of the subterranean Fire is very strong and powerful/ which 
drives the more subtle matter of the Elements upwards into the Air/ 
and at the same time rises upwards itself.” (Conrad Horlacher, Kern 
und Stern, Frankfurt, 1707) 

“Place this in the right oven of the philosophers/ and seal it ina 
constant and ever-changing prison/ which should be quite transpar- 
ent/ light and clear like a crystal and round in shape like a celestial 
sphere. (...) But this heaven of yours must be kept safe with three 
bulwarks and walls (triple oven)/ so that not more than a single 
entrance/ is well-guarded: for the celestial city will be besieged by 
earthly enemies.” (anonymous, Nodus Sophicus Enodatus, 1639) 

“But it is necessary that the vessel be round in shape, so that 
the artist may transform the firmament and the top of the skull.” 
(Theatrum chemicum, 1622) 

“The (Philosophers’) Stone is made in the image of the Creation 
of the World. For one must have its chaos and its prime matter, in 
which the elements float hither and thither, all mixed together, until 
they are separated by the fiery spirit. And when this has happened, 
the light is lifted up, while the heavy is brought downwards.” 

(J. d’Espagnet, Das Geheime Werk, Nuremberg, 1730) 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


“The creation of 
the world” 


Hieronymus Bosch, 
outer wings of the 
“Garden of De- 
lights“, c. 1510 


113 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


14 


The following series of illustrations is taken from the Efementa chemi- 


cae of the Leiden chemistry professor J.C. Barchusen. He had them 
engraved from an old manuscript “to do a great favour to the adepts 
of gold-making”. He was of the opinion that they described the pro- 
duction of the Philosopher's Stone “not only in better order, but also 
with a more correct emphasis” than anything else that he had seen 
hitherto. 

In order to attain the lapis, the alchemist had to make a funda- 
mental decision on which path to follow: a short “dry” path, in which 
the separation of the matter took place under the influence of exter- 
nal heat and the involvement of a secret “inner fire” and a “wet” 
path, which was much longer and only led to its goal through many 
distillations. The latter is illustrated here. 

The main role in this process is played by the philosophical Mer- 
cury, not ordinary quicksilver, but a mysterious substance whose 
origins are entirely shrouded in darkness. 

The material spirit is extracted from it. The legendary Azoth 
comes, as the agent of the Work, in the form of a dove. Like the 
doves that Noah sent forth to learn whether the waters had abated, 
it only ends its flight when the lapis is finally fixed. 

Its twenty-seven-fold flight upwards and downwards here and 
in a related series of illustrations corresponds, in William Blake’s 
mythology, to the flight of the twenty-seven larks, which act as 
bearers of conventional ideas. Only the twenty-eighth brings 
enlightenment and an escape from the retort’s restricted field of | 
vision. It is destroyed when the lapis is complete. 

The commentaries on the individual illustrations follow the 
explanations provided by Barchusen. 

He himself, by his own account, was never witness to a trans- 
mutation, and repeatedly declared that in all his instructions he had 
to rely entirely on speculation. 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


/yus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


The emblems of 
the lapis on the 
crescent moon. 
Normal gold (lion) 
must be twice 
driven by anti- 
mony (wolf) in 
order to lose its 
impurities. The 
dragon is philo- 
sophical quick- 
silver (Mercury). 


2. The alchemist 
assures himself of 
God's presence in 
the Work. 


3. Chaos. 


4. The coat of arms 
of the lapis. 


5. The four ele- 
ments. 


J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


115 


Genesis 
in the retort 


6. The chamois 
represent spirit 
and soul, which 
unite to form 
philosophical 
mercury. 


7. The six planets 
embody the 
metals to which 
the bird mercury 
is related. The 
locked trunk says 
that the path to 
this quicksilver is 
hidden. 


8. The inner circles 
are the four 
elements, which 
form the basic 
material of the 
seven metals 
(fixed stars). 


g. Sulphur (sun) 
and mercury 
(moon), male and 
female. 


J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


116 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


10. Through con- 
tact with the moon 
and the sun, philo- 
sophical mercury 
attains the power 
of fertilizing the 
earth. 


11. Sulphur and 
mercury must be 
freed by fire from 
the material which 
contains them. 


12. Purification of 
philosophical 
mercury by sub- 
limation. 


13. Philosophical 
mercury is joined 
once more to its 
sulphur, so that 

a homogenous 
liquid is produced. 


J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


117 


Genesis 
in the retort 


14. Gold (lion) is 
purified by mix- 
ture with anti- 
mony (wolf). 


15. and trans- 
formed by dissolu- 
tion into philo- 
sophical sulphur 


16. The oven. 


17. The retort in 
which sulphur and 
mercury are 
united. 


J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


118 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


(pus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


18. Philosophical 
quicksilver con- 
sists of liquid, 
mercurial compo- 
nents (Azoth) and 
solid sulphurous 
parts (Latona). 
The bird is the 
mercurial “spirit” 
that carries out 
the Work. 


19.-21. The state of 
putrefaction: here 
the four elements 
separate and the 
soul emerges from 
the body. The 
ascending bird 
represents the dis- 
tillation of philo- 
sophical mercury. 
The descending 
bird indicates that 
the distillate must 
be repeatedly 
poured on to the 
physical residue. 


J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


119 


Genesis 
in the retort 


22.-23. The black- 
ness of putrefac- 
tion (nigredo) is 
purified by Azoth, 
the living spirit, 
which is extracted 
from the quick- 
silver. 


24.-25. Putrefac- 
tion is the gate to 
the conjunctio, and 
conception. It is 
the key to trans- 
mutation. The star 
indicates that the 
matter is self- 
enclosed, and that 
the seeds of the 
seven metals lie 
within it. 

J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


120 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


26.-27. The black 
material (toad) 
turns white if 
Azoth (dove) is 
poured on it again. 
With the applica- 
tion of great heat, 
it then yields all 
of its liquid com- 
ponents. 


28.-29. Under the 
effects of heat the 
elements begin to 
restratify. 


J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


121 


Genesis 
in the retort 


30.-33. The 
restratification of 
the elements in 
the glass occurs 
by repeatedly 
extracting the 
mercurial spirit 
and then pouring 
it back. 


J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


122 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


‘)eus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


34.-36. In the sev- 
enth distillation 
the lapis attains its 
fiery nature. 


37. The appear- 
ance of Apollo and 
Luna announces 
that the stone will 
soon have the ca- 
pacity for trans- 
mutation. 


J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


123 


Genesis 
in the retort 


38.-41. Inthe 
ninth distillation 
of philosophical 
mercury the 
watery matter, 
followed by air, 
strives upwards. 


J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


124 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Oeus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


42.-45. In the 
tenth distillation 
and the 
subsequent 
moistening the 
elements are 
divided in two. 


The fiery nature 
of the lapis lowers 
itself to the 
ground. The water 
turns into clouds. 


J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


125 


Genesis 
in the retort 


46. The final sub- 
limation of the 
lapis. Here it is 
represented as a 
pelican, said to 
bring its dead 
young (the base 
metals) back to 
life with its own 
blood (tincture). 


47. The final solidi- 
fication (fixatio) 

of the lapis, which 
rises as a phoenix 
in the flames. 


48.-49. The ele- 
ments are united 
and the Work 
completed. 


J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


126 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


50.-53. The more 
transparent and 
subtle the consist- 
ency of the lapis, 
the higher its pen- 
etrative capacities 
and the greater 
its strength of 
colour. In order 

to intensify this, 
further sublim- 
ations occur: it is 
now fertilized 
with philosophical 
mercury (serpent), 
“until the serpent 
has swallowed its 
own tail” and the 
lapis is dissolved. 


J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


127 


Genesis 
in the retort 


The dissolution of 
the lapis (54) and 
the repeated 
distillations or 
sublimations (55) 
and subsequent 
moistenings (56) 
lead to its final 
resolidification 


(57) 
J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


128 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


Azoth is poured 
on once more (58), 
and the intensity 
of the fire is raised 
(59-60), for the 
soul must be 
“sweated out” 
(61). 


J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


129 


Genesis 
in the retort 


62.-65. The lapis 
must be burned 
strongly and fora 
long time. 


J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


130 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


‘)eus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


67.-69. The mass 
is moistened 
again, because the 
more often the 
stone is distilled 
the greater is its 
capacity to penet- 
rate and to colour 
(tincture). 


J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


131 


Genesis 
in the retort 


70.-74. In ator- 
ture by fire lasting 
several days, 

the stone now 
matures to its 
perfection and 
resurrection. 


J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


132 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


‘ye Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


75.-78. “After 
much suffering 
and torment | was 
resurrected large, 
pure and immacu- 
late.” 


Spirit and soul 
have now com- 
pletely penetrated 
the body, father 
and son are 
united, transience 
and death have 
lost all their 
power. 


J.C. Barchusen, 


Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


133 


Genesis 
in the retort 


134 


The splendid illustrations with the seven glass retorts “hermetically” 
sealed are taken from the treatise Sp/endor solis (The sun’s splen- 
dour”) of Salomon Trismosin, a 16th century German alchemist, 
whose existence has not been historically proven. 

In the anthology Aureum vellus (Rorschach, 1598), he tells of his 
travels, which led him to distant lands, where he encountered “cab- 
balistic and magic books” and the “whole treasure of the Egyptians”, 
namely “the three powerful tinctures of the greatest pagan kings.” 

Just as unoriginal as this pseudo-biography is the way to the 
philosopher's stone that he indicated in ‘Splendor solis’. This is only 
one of the countless compilations that were sold at the time, draw- 
ing ona limited fund of alchemistical legends, proverbs and doc- 
trines. Goethe spoke in this context of the monotonous ringing of a 
bell, more likely to drive one into madness than to prayer. 

The treatise is famous only for its illustrations, which exist in 
several versions. The earliest, from 1535, comes from Nikolaus Glock- 
endon’s Nuremberg book-painting workshop. 

The following depictions of retorts refer only vaguely to pas- 
sages in the text in which Trismosin speaks of the “governments of 
fire” which pass through the zodiac following the course of the sun. 
“When the Sun is in Aries, it shows the first degree” (weak heat); 
when it is in Leo, the heat rises to the zenith, and in Saturn it is 
restrained. 

In the illustrations, the seven phases of the Work are also linked 
to astrological motifs, namely the depictions of the planet rulers and 
their children. é 

Life on earth was seen as the reflection or shadow of a celestial 
order. Every destiny, estate and profession came under the influence 
of a particular planet ruler. The school of Diirer further developed 
this canon of motifs of the children of the planets, which had been 

handed down from the Middle Ages. 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Build our dead dragon back up with blood, that it may live. 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


The sickle that 
Saturn holds in his 
hand indicates 
that he represents 
the restrictive 
sides of life. He is 
the portal of death 
(left), through 
which the raw ma- 
terial (earth, right) 
must pass. The 
incarnation of the 
solid principle also 
clutches the staff, 
or caduceus, of 
his adversary 
Mercury, showing 
that all opposites 
mysteriously 
cooperate in the 
Work. 


In the retort, 
Mercurius fires up 
the “primaterial” 
dragon and gives 
it wings: that is, 
it begins to vapor- 
ize. The blood 
with which he 
feeds it is the uni- 
versal spirit, the 
soul of all things. 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 

76th century 


Genesis 
in the retort 


After the Satur- 
nine restriction 
Jupiter promises 
good fortune and 
wealth. His chil- 
dren are the great 
dignitaries of soci- 
ety. The phase of 
multiplication in 
the Work is as- 
signed to him. The 
mass in the retort 
is in aseething 
transitional stage, 
indicated by the 
fighting birds, 
clad in the three 
colours of the 
Work. 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 

16th century 


136 


Jissolved bodies have now been brought back to the true spirit. 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort ‘pus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


As the number of 
heads of the bird 
reveals, the matter 
has now been 
thrice sublimated, 
and is ina gaseous 
state. Bellicose 
Mars arrives. His 
attribute, the 
sword, and the 
warrior’s lance are 
symbols of the fire 
that is now inten- 
sified so as to con- 
dense the material 
and “separate the 
pure from the im- 
pure and thus to 
renew the elixir.” 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 

16th century 


137 


Genesis 
in the retort 


The sun is the ruler 
of Leo, the sign 

of the zodiac, to 
whom, according 
to the inscription 
on the base, the 
matter should be 
thrown on the base 
as food. The green 
wings of the mon- 
ster in Glock- 
endon’s original 
version support 
the thesis of Hart- 
laub (G.F. Hartlaub, 
“Signa Hermetis”, 
in: Zeitschrift des 
Deutschen Vereins 
ftir Kunstwissen- 
schaft, Berlin, 
1937), that this is 

a representation 
of green vitriol, a 
highly corrosive 
sulphurous acid 
code-named “green 
lion”. The phase of 
‘digestion’ is as- 
signed to the sun. 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 

16th century 


138 


Give the wild lion to our living dragon to devour. 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


ynpletion is nigh. 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


The arrival of 
Venus in the sky 
brings sensual 
pleasure; amag- 
nificent play of 
colours called the 
“peacock’s tail” 
appears. Basil 
Valentine said 
that this phenom- 
enon, like a rain- 
bow, indicates 
“that in future the 
matter will come 
from the moist 
tothe dry”. 
(Philosophischer 
Hauptschlissel, 
Leipzig, 1718) 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 

16th century 


139 


Genesis 
in the retort 


Mercury arrives 
with two cocks, 
the heralds of the 
dawn. The pure 
virgin, embodying 
the phase of 
whitening (albedo), 
brings a happy 
message. Still sub- 
ject to the moon 
and the night, she 
is already carrying 
the son of the Sun. 
The material, 
wrote Pernety in 
the Dictionnaire 
mytho-hermétique 
(1787), has now 
reached sucha 
degree of solidity 
that no fire can 
destroy it. 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 

16th century 


140 


The son is born, he is bigger than I. 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Now death is abolished and our son rules with his redness. 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


Luna, who governs 
all things moist, 
gives birth to the 
immaculate 
purple-robed 
king: red tincture, 
the universal 
medicine that can 
heal all afflictions. 
“Here the 
worker's efforts 
cease”. A state has 
been attained 
which abolishes 
the passage of 
time. The power 
of the planetary 
demons is thus 
broken. 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 

16th century 


141 


Purification 


A marks the flue 
area, and C the 

fireplace of the 

oven. 


Bis divided into an 
upper area where 
distillation occurs; r 
the lower half i 
holds the balnea, 
the water-baths 
for the retorts. It 
also holds an iron 
pan for the cal- 
cination (ashing) 
of the metals. 


Dis attached to 
the floor. 


D.J. Faber, Die hell- 


scheinende Sonne, 
Nuremberg, 1705 


142 


Opus Macnum: Purification 


ibe 


ce 


A Wgns: 
ed ikea tat “Te 


Inane: 


test Ae 


i Loe 


Opus Macnum: Purification 


Purification 


A diagram of the 
cosmos in the form 
of an oven from 
Thomas Norton’s 
famous alchemistic 
poem “Ordinall of 
Alchemy” (1477), 
contained in Elias 
Ashmole’s antho- 
logy Theatrum 
chemicum Britan- 
nicum (London, 
1652). 


The fireplace rep- 
resents the sphere 
of hell, the abyss, 
chaos. Evil is 
waste, ash. 


Thomas Norton, 


Tractatus chymicus, 
Frankfurt, 1616 


143 


Purification 


“You must know, my son, that the course 
of nature is transformed, so that you (...) 
can see without great agitation the escap- 
ing spirits (...) condensed in the air in the 
form of various monstrous creatures or 
people moving hither and thither like 
clouds.” (R. Lull, Compendium in Biblio- 
theca chemica curiosa, Vol. |, Geneva, 1702) 


“But the philosophers have described this 

‘spirit’ and this ‘soul’ as ‘steam’ (...), and as 
there is moisture and dryness in man, 

our work is nothing but steam and water.” 

(Turba philosophorum, Berlin, 1931) 


If. top: Aurora con- 
surgens, early 16th 


144 Opus Macnum: Purification 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


Opus Macnum: Purification 


Purification 


King Duenech 
(code name for the 
green vitriol of the 
philosophers: the 
raw material) is 
seen here ina ves- 
sel called a “bal- 
neum“, which is 
being heated in 
the oven. He is 
taking a “sweat- 
bath”, which is 
supposed to free 
him from the 
“black gall”, the 
“Saturnine filth”. 
The process lasts 
“until the skin 
breaks and ared 
colour appears”. 


M. Maier, 
Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


REO 
a : a 


Hi 


aI 


“Taking a sweat-bath with Saturn” meant 
seeing our passage through the earthly 
vale of tears as a process of purification, at 
the end of which lay the overcoming of the 
raw nature of the “old Adam”. 


W. Blake, Death Door, from: Gates of 
Paradise, 1793 


145 


Purification 


“Then, as ina 
furnace, the fire 
draws out of 
matter and divides 
what is best, 
spirit, mind, life 
(...) leads it up- 
wards, takes the 
topmost by the 
helmet, holds fast 
to it and then 
flows downwards 
(...), the same as 
God will do on the 
Day of Judgment; 
with a fire He will 
separate every- 
thing, and divide 
the just from the 
godless. The Chris- 
tian and the just 
will go to heaven 
and dwell in it for 
ever; but the god- 
less and the 
damned will stay 
in hell as broth and 
yeast.” (Martin 
Luther, Tischreden) 


Theatrum 
chemicum Britan- 
nicum, London, 
1652 


146 


Opus Macnum: Purification 


Imagination, Art & Science go, all 


octual Gifts, all the Gifts or the Holy 


are look’d upon as of no use & only 
tion remains to Man, then the Last 
ment begins.” With these words 
introduced a detailed commentary 

painting of the same name, in 


| |e gives a precise explanation of the 


Macnum: Purification 


Purification 


W. Blake, Last 
Judgement, 1808 


countless figures depicted in it. “If the 
Spectator could enter into these Images 
in his Imagination, approaching them on 
the Fiery Chariot of his Contemplative 
Thought (...) then would he arise from his 
Grave, then would he meet the Lord in the 
Air & then he would be happy.” (William 
Blake, A Vision of the Last Judgement, 1810) 


147 


Fall of Adam 


“The Father indig- 
nant at the Fall - 
the Saviour, while 
the Evil Angels are 
driven, gently con- 
ducts our first par- 
ents out of Eden 
through a Guard of 
weeping Angels — 
Satan now awakes 
Sin, Death & Hell, 
to celebrate with 
him the birth of 
war and Misery, 
while the lion 
siezes the Bull, 
Tyger, the Horse, 
the Vulture and 
the Eagle contend 
for the lamb.” 
(Inscription on the 
reverse of the 
drawing, 1807) 


W. Blake, The Fall 
of Man, 1807 


148 


Opus Macnum: Fall of Adam 


Fall of Adam 


The celestial revolt of arrogant Lucifer, his subsequent banishment 
to the dark abyss and the fall of Adam, causally linked to it, form 

the starting point of Hermetic philosophy. For these two cosmic 
catastrophes produced the ‘primaterial’ chaos of the elements, 
which forms the starting material for the Work. 

The artist faces the superhuman task of bringing this “dark lump’ 
back to its original paradisal state through complete sublimation. “It 
is clear that the Earth as originally made by God was quite complete 
and perfect and also like the nature and virtue of the philosopher's 
stone (...). When man fell, God grew angry and cursed the red earth 
(Adam derives from the Hebrew: Adamah, ‘red earth’. This was seen 
as areference to the red of the lapis), he destroyed its intrinsic pro- 
portions, turned the homogeneity into heterogeneity and changed it 
by taking the elements into an offensive conflation of material: from 
which follow corruption and death.” (Julius Sperber, in: Deutsches 
Theatrum Chemicum II, Nuremberg, 1730) 

According to the mystic Jacob Bohme, writing in the early 17th 
century, it was Lucifer who had lit the fire in nature through inciting 
God’s wrath with his arrogance, and “sweet love, which arose in the 
thunderbolt of life (...) became a sting of death; clay became a hard 
knocking of stones, a house of misery”. (Bohme, Aurora, 1672) 

The fall of Adam drew with it the fall of man from an original, in- 
ner unity into the external world of opposites. According to Cabbal- 
istic teachings, taken up by Paracelsus and Bohme, the Ur-Adam was 
androgynous: “he was a man and a woman at the same time (...) quite 
pure in breeding. He could give birth parthenogenically at will (...) 
and he had a body that could pass through trees and stones. 

The noble lapis philosophorum would have been as easy for him to 
find as a building stone.” (Bohme, Vom dreyfachen Leben, Amsterdam, 
1682) 

The feminine that was essential in Adam, before it was sepa- 
rated from him in sleep, was his heavenly spouse Sophia (wisdom). 
Blake calls her “Emanation”. 

After Adam had “imagined” himself into the outside world in 
the Fall, thus forfeiting his astral light-body for the fleshly “larva”, 


Opus Macnum: Fall of Adam 149 


Fall of Adam 


The starting situa- 
tion shows the 
residence of the 
divine trinity in- 
cluding the flames 
of the heavenly 
host. They are 
divided into the 
hierarchies of 

the archangels 
Michael (M) and 
Uriel (U). The third 
and topmost is 
unoccupied, for 
its previous occu- 
pant, the repres- 
entative of Jesus, 
has committed 
high treason by his 
wilfulness. 


150 


his companion and matrix left him. Since then his existence has been 
shadowy and unreal, a ghost (spectre, the male side). 

The high level of abstraction of Jacob Bohme’s ideas and his 
hallucinatory linguistic form inspired several series of illustrations 
by the London-based Nuremberg theosophist Dionysos A. Freher 
(1649-1728), which Blake ranked with the pictorial discoveries of 
Michelangelo. The following emblems on the fall of Lucifer and the 
fall of Adam are part of the Hieroglyphica Sacra (or Divine Emblems), 
which were published in 1764 as an appendix to the four-volume 
English edition of Bohme’s writings by William Law. 


Opus Macnum: Fall of Adam 


us Macnum: Fall of Adam 


Fall of Adam 


Lucifer ascends, 
driven upwards by 
his proud wilful- 
ness, but Michael 
and Uriel cast him 
down through the 
fire (4). 


The seven num- 
bers refer to the 
seven source 
spirits of God. 
According to 
BGhme they em- 
body the seven 
qualities of all 
things and the 
seven powers at 
work in every nat- 
ural process. Here 
Freher shows how 
they divide, like a 
cell, into a dark 
sphere of wrath 
and a light sphere 
of love. The fourth 
spirit, fire, is the 
pivot and central 
point of this sepa- 
ration. 


151 


Fall of Adam 


The symbol for the 
work of reunifica- 
tion &, which is 
known in India as 
the Sri-Yantra, 
meaning the com- 
plete interpenet- 
ration of the 
sexes, was seen 
by the pupils of 
Bohme as a symbol 
of Christ, since he, 
as asecond Adam, 
restored Adam’s 
primal androgyny. 
“For this reason, 
Christ became 
human in the 
woman’s part and 
brings the man’s 
part back into 

the holy matrix.” 
(Bohme, Myste- 
rium Magnum) 


This enabled him 
to travel down- 
wards, to break 
down the portals 
of hell, defeat 
death, rise up and 
thus fulfil the 
prophesy in Micah 
2, 13: “So their 
leader breaks out 
before them ... and 
the Lord leads the 


way.” 


152 


Opus Macnum: Fall of Adam 


ih 
os 


wt 


Opus Macnum: Fall of Adam 


nity 
| 


iN 


Fall of Adam 


The “serpent- 
treader” is now 
enthroned in the 
third hierarchy, 
which has re- 
mained unoccu- 
pied since Satan’s 
fall. He, himself 
the Moses serpent 
of healing, the 
true tincture, has 
broken the power 
of the cunning 
snake: the gates of 
Paradise are open 
once more, and 
according to the 
level of their per- 
fection in life, the 
souls encounter 
more or less large 
obstacles on their 
crossing. 


At the centre, the 
“salnitric fire” 
rises as a flash of 
recognition. It is 
the secret salt-fire 
of the alchemists. 


153 


i. iii i a. = + q§ <a is Ts, 


F 
all of Adam Fall of Adam 


With his rebellion, 
Lucifer had 
brought his new 
dwelling-place 
into such a chaotic 
state that God cre- 


Adam, created ina 
state of purity and 
perfection, is at 
the point of inter- 
section between 
the divine world 


1 WM 

Al PB 2 
i 

\ 


4 


ated the visible 
and tangible world 
from it in six days. 
But because of its 
provisional and 
temporal nature, it 
is unattractive to 
Lucifer and he 
leaves it. So, asa 
new governor, 
Adam is created 
asa “compendium 
of the whole uni- 
verse”. The seven 
spirits manifest 
themselves as 
planetary forces 
which form the 
“wheel of anguish” 
of outer nature”. 


of angels and the 
dark world of fire. 
Three creatures 
make claims on 
him: 1. Sophia (S), 
the companion of 
his youth, 2. Satan 
(S) below him and 
3. the spirit of this 
world, depicted 
here by the astral 
influences. In or- 
der to force him to 
a decision, there 
follows the temp- 
tation at the Tree 
of Knowledge. 


The two S's, 
Sophia and Satan, 
are the two con- 
trary snakes of the 
staff of Mercury 
(Caduceus) and 
must be united. 


yp 


DONT Ks 


154 : 
Opus Macnum: Fall of Adam Opus Macnum: Fall of Adam 155 


Fall of Adam 


“Here poor Adam 
has actually fallen 
and has lost every- 
thing that was 
good and worth 
striving for. He lies 
as though dead at 
the outermost 
boundaries of 

the spirit of this 
world.” Sophia has 
left him, because 
he faithlessly left 
her in the lurch. 
“He is completely 
in gloom and lies 
more under the 
earth than ruling 
over it: all the 
stars fire their in- 
fluences at him.” 
This was his state 
after the trans- 
gression, before 
he heard the word 
of mercy, “that 
the seed of the 
woman will tread 
the head of the 
serpent”. 


156 


‘ 
j 


Opus Macnum: Fall of Adam Opus Macnum: Fall of Adam 


Fall of Adam 


The word of mercy, 
whose name is 
JESUS, has 
brought him so far 
back up that he 
can stand on the 
base of a fiery tri- 
angle A (his soul) 
on the terrestrial 
globe. Above him, 
the sign of the 
redeemer on the 
basis of a watery 
triangle V. When 
these two trian- 
gles have com- 
pletely interpene- 
trated one another 
in the *, “the most 
meaningful sign in 
the entire uni- 
verse”, the work of 
rebirth and reuni- 
fication with 
Sophia will be 
complete. 


Chaos 


From the gloomy 
scenario of the 
creation of the 
world in the Book 
of Urizen: like a 
placenta, the fe- 
male parts are 
shown emerging 
from the head of 
the demiurge. “In 
pangs (...)/ Life in 
cataracts poured 
down his cliffs./ 
The void shrunk 
the lymph into 
nerves (...)/ And 
left a round globe 
of blood/ Trem- 
bling upon the 
void (...)/ branch- 
ing out into 
roots,/ Fibrous, 
writing upon the 
winds:/ Fibres of 
blood, milk and 
tears (...)” 


W. Blake, The Book 
of Urizen, Lambeth, 
1794. 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


Chaos 


Chaos, formed 
from heat, mois- 
ture, frost, con- 
cealment and 
dryness. 


“Outwardly it 

is the Jewish 
en-soph, and one 
with the Night 

of Orpheus: 

O Night you black 
wet-nurse of the 
golden stars! From 
this darkness all 
things that are in 
this world have 
come as from its 
spring or womb.” 
(Philalethes, 
pseudonym of 
Thomas Vaughan, 
Magia adamica 
London, 1650) 


“It has no name. 
Nevertheless, it is 
called Hyle, 
Matter, Chaos. 
Possibility or 
Being-able-to- 
develop or 
Underlying and 
other things (...) 
(Nikolaus of Cusa, 
Compendium, 
Hamburg edition, 
1970) 


Coenders van 
Helpen, Escalier 
des sages, 1689 


159 


Chaos 


160 


After his fall Satan finds himself back in 
the abyss of Chaos with a host of fallen 
angels on a burning lake. After a short 
time, the vast and magnificent palace Pan- 
demonium rises on the model of the Greek 
Pantheon. Ina great council assembly it is 
here decided that Satan should investi- 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


gate the truth about the rumour that a 
new world, with a new kind of being, has 
been created. 


John Martin, The falfen angels enter 
Pandemonium, 79th century 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


Chaos 


After the fall of 
man, Sin and 
Death, the two 
watchmen at the 
gates of Hell, fol- 
low the tempter 
earthwards and 
pave him “a broad 
and beaten way/ 
Over the dark 
abyss (...)” John 
Milton, Paradise 
Lost, 1667) 


J. Martin, On the 
edge of Chaos, 
1825 


The cosmos of ‘Paradise Lost’: 

God’s “new world” is suspended as a self- 
enclosed sphere above the realm of dark- 
ness ruled by “Chaos and ancient Night”. 
Its nethermost realm, bolted with a great 
gate, adjoins Hell. From there, the wide 
thoroughfare is built across Chaos to the 
new world, as a kind of negative Jacob’s 
Ladder. 


Homer B. Sprague, Milton’s Cosmography, 
Boston, 1889 


161 


Chaos 


SS 
“ae ete et en 


In 1638, in the course of a research expedi- 
tion to Sicily, Pater Kircher was witness to 
a catastrophic volcanic eruption. Travel- 
ling on to Naples, he was then taken to the 
edge of the crater of Vesuvius, to examine 
whether it might not have an underground 
link with Etna. “There he was confronted 
with a terrible sight. The sinister crater 
was completely lit by fire, and emanated 
an unbearable smell of sulphur and pitch. 
Kircher seemed to have arrived at the 
dwelling-place of the underworld, the res- 
idence of the evil spirits (...). At dawn, he 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


had himself lowered on a rope inside the 
crater, down to a large rock which gave a 
good view of the whole subterranean 
workshop (...). This wonderful natural 
spectacle greatly reinforced his opinion 
of the fiery, fluid state of the interior of 
the earth. Accordingly, he considered all 
volcanoes as merely the safety valves of 
the underground furnace.” (K. Brischar, 
P. Athanasius Kircher, 1877) 


A. Kircher, Mundus subterreaneus, Amster- 
dam, 1682 


‘| imagine the earth with its circle of 
vapour as resembling a great living crea- 
(ure, constantly breathing in and out.” 
(Goethe, Conversations with Eckermann, 
1827) With this image, Goethe placed him- 
solf in the Platonic-Hermetic tradition, 
which understood the planets as physical 
creatures with an internal pulse, from the 
venous network of subterranean lava 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


canals leading from the central fire, which 
acts as the heart-centre, and a water circu- 
lation, whereby the sea-water reaches the 
great mountains via large subterranean 
tanks, from which it flows back along the 
rivers to the sea. 


A. Kircher, Mundus subterreaneus, Amster- 
dam, 1682 


Chaos 


163 


Chaos 


Here Kircher 
showed the metals 
being cooked in 
the terrestrial 
matrix. Although 
he did not believe 
in transmutation 
by chymical 
means, he 
absorbed some 
Paracelsian ideas, 
such as the theory 
of the creation of 
all material things 
froma universal 
seed, the “Chaos 
sulphureo-sale- 
mercurialis”. 


A. Kircher, Mundus 
subterreaneus, 
Amsterdam, 1682 


Here, the Prima 
Materia, the raw 
state of the lapis 
(pelican) is being 
dug from the earth 
by miners. Be- 
cause of their 
small size, they 
became the model 
for Snow White’s 
seven dwarfs 
(whose number 
also refers to the 
metals, which 
were held to be 
the “seven coagu- 
lated planetary 
forces”). 


Aurora consurgens, 
early 16th century 


164 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


RE cys FTERNI MOT 


= 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


Chaos 


Sun and moon as 
givers of all super- 
terrestrial and 
subterranean life. 
In the bowels of 
Mother Earth, the 
base metals ma- 
ture towards their 
perfection. “The 
mines or metal- 
pits are also seen 
as the womb: in 
place of it the 
philosophers use 
a wide glass (...) 
which is also called 
her ‘egg’.” (J.J. 
Becher, Chymis- 
cher Ratseldeuter) 


J.J. Becher, Physica 
subterranea, 1703 


165 


Chaos 


166 


Heaven is a source and spring of life/ (...) 
for with its fiery rays of influence it strews 
its subtle seed in the air/ that mingles with 
the seed of the air/ and casts itself in the 
water; the water/ which is impregnated by 
the received seeds of both heaven and the 
air/ sinks/ with its own seed/ into the 
earth; the earth/ as a mother/ receives the 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


seed of all three/ mixes her own among 
them/ as a strange grease/ and preserves 
them all. From this there now arises the 
universal balm and Mercurius of the world 
(...)" J. de Monte Raphaim, 1727) 


German manuscript, 18th century 


IV RUsHEARRRT 
Donan NCNMIOD 
LON a NEN 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


Chaos 


The “philosophers” 
compass” be- 
tween the mag- 
netic poles of the 
Work, symbolized 
here as the two 
Masonic columns 
of Solomon's 
temple. Joachin: 
male, upper fire 
(esh) and lower air, 
Boaz: feminine, 
upper water 
(Mayim) and lower 
earth. These pro- 
duce the lapis. 

It joins the powers 
of the upper (the 
planets) and the 
lower. (The mate- 
rials in the Work: 
tartar, sulphur, sal 
ammoniac, vitriol, 
saltpetre, alum 
and in the centre 
antimony, the sat- 
urnine source ma- 
terial, said to be 
the greatest poi- 
son and the 
supreme medi- 
cine. Its symbol is 
the imperial orb.) 


Der Compa’ der 


Weisen, Ketima 
Vere, Berlin, 1782 


167 


Chaos 


The raw chaotic 
source material, 
the legacy of 
Satan‘s and 
Adam’s fall, is 
shown here asa 
beast with horns 
and a crown, of 
which it is said in 
the Apocalypse: 
“(...) and his 
Jeadly wound was 
healed: and all the 
world wondered 
after the beast 
(...)". (Rev., 13, 3) 
Its exaltation 
occurs during the 
familiar phases of 
the Work, repre- 
sented by the 
birds in the central 
retort. The upper 
Six«sidled star sig- 
nalling perfection 
refers to Mercury, 
which is both be- 
ginning and end. 


== es 


5, Michelspacher, 
Cabala, Augsburg, 
1616 


168 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


Chaos 


An allegory of the 
Chaos of the ele- 
ments and the 
need to harmonize 
them. The text 
states that one 
should pay atten- 
tion to Temper- 
antia, moderation, 
lest any of the 
elements in the 
Work assume 
predominance. 
Such disharmony 
is expressed here. 


In the three-foot- 
edness of the crea- 
ture Lennep sees a 
reference to the 
tripod, the stand 
in which the retort 
is exposed to fire. 
(J. van Lennep, 
Alchimie, Brussels, 


1985) 


Aurora consurgens, 
fate 14th century 


169 


Chaos 


A collection of 
various illustra- 
tions with which 
the “ancient pa- 
gans” supposedly 
imagined Chaos: 
at the bottom the 
dark Demogorgon 
(Chronos), who 
clwells in the cen- 
‘tre of the earth, 
enclosed by the 
Ouroboros ser- 
pent of eternity. 
To the right above 
him, the Egyptian 
Eneph (B). The egg 
in his mouth is 
supposed to sig- 
nify the creative 
word. Next to him, 
Saturn (C) with the 
sickle, Pan (D) is 
the whole world, 
but also the 
spagyric fire that 
divides the “disor- 
dered lump”. The 
four childrenin 

the cave (H) repre- 
sent the four ele- 
ments, L the spirit 
of God which 
floats above the 
darkness, and M 

the Hebrew word 
Bereshith: ‘In the 
beginning’. 


De Hooghe, Hiero- 
glyphica oder Denk- 
bilder der alten 
Volker, Amsterdam, 
AA 


170 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


“| say to you that | am the thing itself, but you must not touch me; 
within me lies the seed of all animals, herbs and ores.” (Conversation 


between Saturn and a chemist, Frankfurt, 1706) 
Once Cronus-Saturn was the proud ruler in the eternally youth- 


ful “Golden Age”, but since his son Jupiter over- 


Saturnine 
night 


D. Stolcius v. 
Stolcenberg, 
Viridiarum 
chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


threw him and he, according to the /liad was, “put 
under the earth”, he is ina pitiful condition: as 
Father Death, with his sickle in his hand, he now 
embodies the destructive aspect of time, and rep- 
resents the original “gate of darkness” in the 
Work, through which material must pass “in order 
to be renewed in the light of paradise” (Aeyre- 
naeus Philalethes, Ripley Revived, London, 1677). 
The lowest and coarsest level, the sediment of the 
world edifice, is assigned to him: stones, earth and 
lead (antimony). Béhme called him “the cold, 
sharp and strict, astringent ruler” (Aurora), who 
created the material skeleton of the world. The influences of his 
planet were held responsible for all kinds of poverty and misery. 

For the Neoplatonists, however, he rose “to become the most 
sublime figure in a philosophically interpreted pantheon” (Kliban- 
sky, Panofsky, Saxl, Saturn und Melancholie, Frankfurt, 1992). Accord- 
ing to Plotinus (205-270), he symbolizes the pure spirit, and Agrippa 
von Nettesheim (1486-1535) referred to him as “a great, wise and 
understanding lord, the begetter of silent contemplation” anda 
“keeper and discoverer of mysteries” (De occulta philosophia, 1510). 
In this way, he rose to become the patron of the alchemists, their 


central role model. 


Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


The inscription on 
the meditational 
image urges satur- 
nine self-know- 
ledge. “Visit the 
interior of the 
earth and through 
rectification (puri- 
fication through 
repeated distilla- 
tion) you will find 
the hidden stone.” 
The number seven 
of the sublima- 
tions — Blake 
speaks of seven 
ovens of the soul — 
was assigned to 
Saturn as the 
seventh planet in 
the cosmological 
system. 


171 


Saturnine 
night 


“Behold, in Saturn 
a Gold lies en- 
closed (...). Just so 
man lies now, after 
his fall, ina great, 
formless, bestial, 
dead likeness 

(...) He is like the 
coarse stone in 
Saturn (...) the 
outer body isa 
stinking cadaver, 
because it still 
lives in poison.” 
(Jacob Bo6hme, De 
signatura rerum) 


“Therein lies the 
most evil poison 
of all (...) and an 
earthly treasure 
and an earthly God 
in whose hands 
lies the spiritual 
and earthly law, 
and who has the 
whole World in his 
hand.” 


J. Isaak Hollandus, 
Hand der 
Philosophen (1667), 
Vienna edition, 
1746 


172 


Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


rasan ON UN ae apereeeey 


tt preneen Hae 
oe ae rireoaremecnoennineeo net 
~ ear 
nn rv rn 
AL DT RA a 


Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


Saturnine 
night 


“Tale the grey 
wolf, the child of 
Saturn (..) and 
throw him the 
body of the King. 
And when he has 
swallowed him, 
build a big fire and 
throw the Wolf 
into it, so that he 
burns up, and then 
the King will be 
liberated again.” 
(Basil Valentine, 
Twelve Keys) 


M. Maier, 
Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


For the purifica- 
tion of gold (king) 
the impurities 
were alloyed with 
antimony, which 
was added to the 
melt. As antimony 
attracted and 
swallowed impuri- 
ties, it was called 
the “philosophers” 
magnet”, the 
“wolf of metals”, 
the “fiery dragon” 
or the “bath of the 
king”. 


D. Stolcius v. 
Sto/cenberg, 
Viridarium 
chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


173 


Saturnine 
night 


“The stone that 
Saturn devoured, 
spewed out, 
instead of Jupiter, 
his son, is placed 
on Mount Helicon 
as areminder to 
Man.” 


174 


According to the Greek myth, Cronus- 
Saturn castrated his father Uranus with a 
sickle and thereafter became the ruler of 
the Golden Age. But as it had been proph- 
esied to him that one of his children would 
dethrone him, he always devoured them 
immediately after their birth. But his wife 
Rhea hid his third son Jupiter from him, 
and in his place gave him a stone which he 
later vomited up after Jupiter had mixed 
salt and mustard with his drink. 


Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


That the stone was chymical, says Maier, 
is clear enough. But it is not, as the begin- 
ners have it, in the saturnine lead, but in 
the black phase of putrefaction which 
stands at the beginning of the Work and is 
governed by Saturn. 

Maier also established a genealogical con- 
nection, for Saturn is the grandfather of 
Apollo, the incarnation of the sun, gold. 


Michael Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppen- 
heim, 1618 


Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


“My spirit wants 
to be with the soul 
above. So that 
none of the others 
fly, the grave is 
artificially closed 
(...). lam like a 
raven when two 
weeks have 
passed.” 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


Saturnine 
night 


Spirit and soul 
leave the old body 
which now, as 
indicated by the 
raven, enters the 
stage of blackness 
(nigredo) and 
putrefaction. 


“If they now come 
and are properly 
conjoined with it: 
from these three 
Apollo will be 
born.” 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


175 


Saturnine 
night 


“Ovid (...) writes 
of an ancient sage 
who wished to 
rejuvenate himelf. 
He should cause 
himself to be 
divided up and 
boiled until com- 
pletely cooked, 
then the limbs 
would reunite and 
rejuvenate most 
powerfully.” 

(S. Trismosin) 


The dove is the 
spirit (the distil- 
late) which 
reunites with the 
bodily remains 
after the putrefac- 
tion. “Just as this 
Saturn is baptized 
with his own water, 
the black raven 
flies off.” (B. Gut- 
wasser, 1728) 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 

16th century 


176 


Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


Saturnine 
night 


Trismosin tells of 
an angel (a code 
name for the mer- 
curial components 
of the Materia 
which can be sub- 
limated), which 
helps “aman, 
black as a Moor” 
out of an “unclean 
slime” (the putre- 
fied sediment in 
the retort), clads 
him in crimson and 
leads him to 
heaven. This is an 
image which 
shows that spirit 
and soul “are 
freed from the 
body by being 
gently boiled” and 
later guided back 
to it, whereby 

the body becomes 
stable “in the 
power of the 
spirit”. 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 

16th century 


177 


Saturnine 
night 


“The whole 
process of the 
philosophical Work 
is nothing but that 
of dissolving and 
making hard again: 
Namely, dissolving 
the body and mak- 
ing hard the 
spirit.” (J. d’Espag- 
net, Das Geheime 
Werk, Nuremberg 
Edition, 1730) 


Saturn(e), whose 
name Fulcanelli 
reads as an ana- 
gram of “natures”, 
is the fleshly prin- 
ciple, the root of 
the Work. He is 
pregnant with the 
golden fruit, but 
the “craftsman of 
this child is Mer- 
curius”. Jacob 
Bohme, De sig- 
natura rerum) 


J.C. von Vaander- 
beeg, Manuductio 
Hermetico- 
Philosophia, 

Hof, 1739 


178 


Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


aes Sicfers baie 


Ser Phithon Sie Shee ab oder 


Te ob my oe aps ae grinren 
Srarher bereifel- 


Opus Macnum: Torment of the metals 


Torment 
of the metals 


In 1357 a myster- 
ious parchment 
fell into the hands 
of the Parisian 
notary Nicolas 
Flamel. It con- 
tained hieroglyph 
figures, whose 
interpretation by 
a Jewish scholar 
finally enabled 
Flamel to perform 
several successful 
transmutations. 


In Eleazar’s inter- 
pretation, the 
dragon is prepared 
from the philo- 
sophers’ vitriol 
and represents the 
dry path, while 
Saturn-Antimon 
represents the wet 
path. Finally, by 
achieving links to 
Mercurius, both 
lead to its fixing. 


Abraham Eleazar, 


Uraltes chymisches 
Werk, Leipzig, 1760 


179 


of the metals 


“The metals must be strongly calcinated 
into a pure, clear ash (...) think on’t, sinful 
man, that you too with the best of wills 
must also suffer several deaths if you wish 
to be the pure red, golden stone and enter 
the pure Heaven.” (Book of the Holy Triplic- 
ity, early 15th century) 


“Calcination is transposition to a kind of 
white ash or earth or white chalk thanks to 
the spirits of our process; it occurs with 
our fire, with the water of our Mercury.” 
(Rosarium philosophorum, 1550) 


Opus Macnum: Torment of the metals 


“No thing can be transformed into another 
nature unless it has previously been made 
into ash, lime or earth.” (Anonymous, 
Nodo Sophico Enodato, 1639) 


“In the ash that remains at the bottom of 
the grave, there lies the king’s diadem.” 
(Livre de Arthéphius, Bibliotheque des 
Philosophes chimiques, Paris, 1741) 


Aurora consurgens, early 16th century 


{hie fabulous winged being represents 
\e initial pulverization, “philosophical 
renewal”. Sword and arrow mark the 

Jlestructive use of inner and outer fire. 


Opus Macnum: Torment of the metals 


Dead matter is brought back to life with 
“Aquapermanens” (Mercurius), and dis- 
tilled up to twelve times. 


Torment 
of the metals 


“It is necessary to 
know that there 
are three calcina- 
tions: two of the 
body and one of 
the spirit. The first 
at the beginning 
of the Work isa 
theft of the cold 
moisture (the /unar 
body). In the 
second, the earthi- 
ness (as chalk) is 
removed (the solar 
body). “The third 
is nothing but 
“drawing the 
quintessence out 
of the elemental” 
(the four flowers in 
the retort). 


Aurora consurgens, 
early 75th century 


181 


Torment 
of the metals 


The Book of the 
Holy Trinity 
(1415-1419), attrib- 
uted to a wander- 
ing Franciscan 
monk by the name 
of Ulmannus, is 
one of the earliest 
and most impor- 
tant testimonies 
to a way of think- 
ing that combines 
the representation 
of the chymical 
process with 
Christian mysti- 
cism and icono- 
graphy. Numerous 


fac 55 4 genbis steaensGene Bnucjas f. 
seat Tose flisteR, ue hue ston : jae 
lige, Ba breve; agebanacn | Gi CGalhew, suntishe Baer A! vs Metee Afi 
rom. Ey ; fine fer Be" fais a 

Zi [oid Pe urna © 


- ein nibh Wie ws beets 


Comoe MB geinlie Bosseichtent- ene, Ce: as stiles a i finn. 
flaca eS > Gauke ting abge 

fehagen ffir Senge pile sii ait | 

» we fhe ands cya, filer lid 


Torment 
of the metals 


In the representa- 
tion of the scene 
of the Fall showing 
Adam (silver) and 
Eve (gold), the 
author reminds 
us that it was un- 
chaste behaviour 
that put the met- 
als into a state 

of impurity. The 
lance signifies 
purification 
through fire. The 
gallows show 
the martyrdom 
of iron (Mars), 
copper (Venus) is 


ij beheaded, the 


ate rent Pee mney fh ores helene secufehse Save ysis Dae. prealincehie 
shaitaxn, ue of ' Doayeuse & EN eo Bh Bis Earme. allss wr as wei i wheel is saturine 
which remains nant ere Fife aepide ee eR ssunale Pal auine: genoa Tra haa i came ee 
Inyetenious even pi tee ks iss Aa 7 fae iad mB, ois 1 fo} anguls '), 
today: “Here there one | ALG es | Jupiterine pewter 


are many artful pot contains satur- 


meanings: natural, 
infinite, super- 
natural, divine 
human”. The net- 
work of corre- 
spondences that 
Ulmannus 
developed witha 
suggestive 
language of 
cyphers shows 
many striking 
similarities to 
Jacob B6hme’s 
system. 


Buch der Heiligen 


Dreifaltigkeit, early 
75th century 


182 


Opus Macnum: Torment of the metals 


ves fi a filo fate Leger Bent one, 
bd sss a snore yas odes 
os rad aa P ysclarees SravdbiBast crafine 
F lasg qavesbon avers Me 4" aie ale 
oy pees apr ang vaio in Pe 
Sianipe fe; By Lanesicdice Lawrl® 
vy ergersher pups Bess % ng save 
sit, By te ay wee Soviet : 
a Ry ne pe, ae Be sfied ee Vie Aare! ig 
shut Bids foie, PACE AS 110k <6 erent, Gace Soa, Bias ne 
ee ye Qik Becca: ise Oat <4 


Beak Sais Ate fe Hos i 


Opus Macnum: Torment of the metals 


nine “gall-drink”, 
and the Mercurial 
cubes refer to 

the play of the sol- 
diers beneath the 
cross. 


Buch der Heiligen 


Dreifaltigkeit, early 
75th century 


183 


Torment 
of the metals 


“Take his soul and 
return it to him, 
for the corruption 
and destruction of 
the one thing is 
the birth of the 
other. This means: 
rob him of the de- 
structive moisture 
and augment it 
with his natural 
moisture, which 
will be his comple- 
tion and his life.” 
(Aurora consurgens, 
after a 16th-cen- 
tury translation) 


Aurora consurgens, 
early 16h century 


184 


Opus Macnum: Torment of the metals 


Fm 


Opus Macnum: Torment of the metals 


Torment 
of the metals 


The Greek al- 
chemist Zosimo 
(4th century) tells 
of a transforma- 
tion of the body 
into pure spirits 
by ritual dismem- 
berment. Here, 

he tells of the 
chopped-up limbs, 
which are “as 
white as salt”. 
(The philosophers 
say that salt in the 
calcinated ashes is 
the key to suc- 
cess.) But the head 
is golden. The 
cruel slayer with 
the black face 
holds in his right 
hand the double- 
edged sword of 
the two fires “and 
a piece of paper 

in his left”. On it 
was written: | have 
killed you so that 
you may have 
overflowing life 
(...). But your head 
| will hide, that 
the world shall not 
see you (...)”. 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 

16th century 


185 


Torment 
of the metals 


A parable on the 
“preparation of 
the destructive 
moistures” (putre- 
faction, Saturn), 
and “renewal with 
the essential mois- 
ture”, Mercurial 
water: “The an- 
cients saw (...)a 
mist draw over the 
earth and water it 
(Genesis 2, 6), and 
the impetuosities 
of the sea(...) and 
of the earth, which 
grew rotten and 
stinking in the 
darkness, and they 
saw the king of 
Earth sinking and 
heard him cry: 
Whoever saves me 
will (...) govern in 
my clarity on my 
royal throne (...) 
The next day they 
saw what seemed 
to be a morning 
star arise over the 
king and the light 
of day (...) He was 
crowned with 
three precious 
crowns of iron, sil- 
ver and gold (...)”. 


S. Trismosin, 


Splendor solis, 
76th century 


186 


Opus Macnum: Torment of the metals 


‘The king inthe sea swims and cries witha 
loud voice: Whoever catches and rescues 
me, to him willl give a great reward.” 


Opus Macnum: Torment of the metals 


Torment 
of the metals 


If one fetches the 
king from the red 
sea (Mercurial 
water), says Maier, 
one should be 
careful that he 
does not lose his 
crown, for with its 
stones one could 
heal illnesses. 
Afterwards one 
should place him 
in asteam-bath, so 
that he loses the 
water that he has 
swallowed, and 
then marry him, so 
that he produces a 
royal son. 


M. Maier, 
Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


HELP! HELP! 


W. Blake, The Gates 
of Paradise, 1793 


187 


Resurrection “First prepare the glorious water of life, bright moisture of Bacchus (spirit of wine, Resurrection 
purify it and carefully pick it up. Think not, alcohol).” 
however, that this juice is not the clear and 


Son and servants ne 7 Reece Tee? f : = mena: er 3 bes ny The grave (oven) is 
ask the king for ‘ ‘ Ae : : . prepared. 

power over the 
realm (oro, Latin: 
I request; 

ro: anagram of 
French or: gold, 
and Hebrew: 
light). 


The son (Azoth) 
kills the father 


“Both fall through 
art into the grave.” 
(QUADR: four- 
elemental.) 


The son tries to 
escape, but a third 
comes, who has 
sprung from both, 
and holds him 
back. 

(is the alembi- 
cus, the still head.) 


and collects his 
blood. 


Janus Lacinius, 
Pretiosa Margarita, 
Venice, 1546; 
Leipzig edition, 
1714 


J. Lacinius, 
Pretiosa Margarita, 
Leipzig, 1714 


188 Opts MAGNUM: RésUrrecuol Opus Macnum: Resurrection 189 


Resurrection 


In the grave 
“comes putrefac- 
tion in ashes ora 
very warm bath”. 
(QUA: Aqua.) 


After cooling 
down, the result 
of putrefaction 


can be seen. (LAS: 


anagram of Sal.) 


The bones are 
taken out. 


/, Lacinius, 
Pretiosa Margarita, 
Leipzig, 1714 


190 


Opus Macnum: 


Resurrection 


Opus Macnum: Resurrection 


Resurrection 


The dissolved mat- 
ter is cooked until 
black, sprinkled 
with the water of 
life and once again 
cooked, until it is 
white. An angel 
comes and throws 
the bones (salt) 
onto the white 
earth, which is 
then cooked 
again. 


The servants ask 
God for the return 
of the king. 


Gradually the an- 
gels bring the rest 
of the bones, until 
the earth is com- 
pletely fixed and 
red like a ruby. 
(Ro from Lat. ‘ros’: 
dew, sweat; Lat. 
‘rosa’, the rose, 
acode name for 
tartar.) 


J. Lacinius, 
Pretiosa Margarita, 
Leipzig, 1714 


191 


Resurrection 


The king is now 
entirely spiritual 


and has the power 
to turn all the ser- 
varits into kings. 
The son is missing. 
Ho has conjoined 
with the father, 


In this phase of 
“projectio” (trans- 
forence), the dusty 
lapis is added as 
an enzyme to the 
base metals. 


/ Lacinius, 
Pretiosa Margarita, 
Leipzig, W714 


192 


The alchemists “also Possessed asecond 
type of alcohol (...) the ‘secret spirits of 
wine of the adepts’, which, because of 
certain properties that it shares with alco- 
hol, to mask them, is also spoken of as 
“spirits of wine’. Its chemical formula is 
well known, but the iatro-chemists have 
by degrees and with many cohibations and 
Processes of digestion intensified this and 


Opus Macnum: Resurrection 


transformed this product, and thus, 
finally, by sharpening it with acids and 
mineral salts, preserved its menstrua 
mineralis, by means of which they were 
able not only to dissolve the metals but 
also to make them volatile (...)” (Alexan- 
der von Bernus, Alchemie und Heilkunst, 
Nuremberg edition, 1969) 


The depiction of the Great Work through regicide, decay and resur- 
rection lives on in the higher degrees of Freemasonry. In its cere- 
monies, the murder of the legendary architect of Solomon’s temple, 
Hiram Abif, is ritually carried out. 

Hiram was murdered with the three tools of Masonry — the mea- 
sure, the set-square and the hammer - by three apprentices who 
wanted to force the master-word from him. For later recognition, the 
murderers placed an acacia branch on the spot where they buried 
him. As the old master-word was now lost (it was supposedly 
“Jehova: the central fire”), the new master-word became ”Mack- 
benach” or “Mach-benak”, which was exclaimed by a man on discov- 
ering Hiram’s decayed corpse. 

This new master-word has been interpreted as: “The flesh is 
coming away from the bones”, “He lives in the Son”, “Son of decay”, 
“A Mason has been killed” or “Mach: decay! Benach: apparently!” 

The meaning of the ceremony lies in the unification of each new 
master with Hiram and in the continuation of the endless chain of 
death and rebirth. 

Joyce’s cryptically infinite work is about the death and resurrec- 
tion of a mason of the other kind. His name is Tim Finnegan, also 
known as “Finnagain (...) of the Stuttering Hand”, a “freemen’s mau- 
rer” who dies when he falls drunk from the scaffolding and is put in 
his coffin. The guests at his cheerful wake (funferal) experience his 
resurrection when the loud uncorking of a whisky bottle awakens 
new life in him. The whisky is the elixir, the “wise key”, the key to the 
Work: the lost master-word of Hiram Abif and the lost member of 
Osiris. Finding this member means bringing together the beginning 
and end of the “end-negating’ (fin negans) book, completing the 
Ouroboros. The member is a syllable, and it is found among the 
bones that the angels bring (cf. p. 512-513). 


Opus Macnum: Resurrection 


Resurrection 


193 


Resurrection 


The lodge at the 
admission of a 
master: 


A position of the 
Grand Master in 
the East 


B Altar with Bible 
and hammer 


G The old master- 
word on the coffin 


K Tears of grief 
over Hiram’s death 


LM The burial 
mound with the 
acacia branch 


O The positions 
of the leading offi- 
cials of the lodge. 


X The new recruit 
in the West 


This form of cere- 
monial representa- 
tion, called the 
“carpet” (tapis), 
was developed 
from symbolic 
drawings made 
with chalk and 
charcoal on the 
floor of the inns, 
where the oldest 
Masonic lodges 
met. 


L’ordre des Francs- 


Macons trahi..., 
Amsterdam, 1745 


194 


i i 
itl 

i 

l 


i Ml i 
Hi if i 


Dagens = 


Opus Magnum: Resurrection 


Opus Macnum: Resurrection 


Resurrection 


In the language of 
the Gold- and 
Rosicrucians, this 
type of depiction 
was meant to “in- 
dicate the corrupt 
fermentation, in 
the general mysti- 
calsense, through 
which the smallest 
parts of the body 
are dissolved, and 
the fire locked 
within it is liber- 
ated”. (Signatstern, 
Stuttgart, 1866) 


The “mosaic floor” 
of black and white 
tiles refers to the 
bipolar nature of 
earthly existence: 
the chimera of 
light and darkness, 
agens and patiens, 
form and matter. 
It leads to the holi- 
est of holies con- 
taining the eternal 
spirit-fire of Jeho- 
vah, which no mor- 
tal can see. 


Work-table for the 
3rd degree 
(master), England, 
c. 1780 


195 


Resurrection 


Our Chymical sci- 
ence, taken asa 
whole, is like a 
farmer working 
the land, prepar- 
ing his field and 
scattering seed 
init.” 


Both, alchemist 
and farmer, must 
precisely obey the 
laws of the sea- 
sons if they are to 
achieve good 
yields. 


M. Maier, 
Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


Alchemy is “celes- 
tial agriculture”. 
Here Gold (Sol) 
and Silver (Luna) 
are added to mat- 
ter as fermenting 
agents, to increase 
it. “If you throw 
the two pieces on 
our land: this liv- 
ing flame will give 
off its forces.” 


D, Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


196 


Opus Macnum: Resurrection 


“ ae 


Opus Macnum: Resurrection 


Resurrection 


The “fermenta- 
tion” of the 
metals: 


“How foolish! The 
seed you sow does 
not come to life 
unless it has first 
died (...). What is 
sown in the earth 
as a perishable 
thing is raised im- 
perishable (...). 
Sown as an animal 
body, it is raised 
as a spiritual 
body.” (1 Corin- 
thians 15, 36-44) 


D. Stolcius von 
Stalcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


The cross and rect- 
angle of the tomb 
form the glyphs of 
the Sal Tartari «, 
“whose spirit (...) 
causes all metals 
to evaporate (...)” 
(Basil Valentine). 
The crosses in the 
background 4 re- 
fer to the fermen- 
tation of mercury 
with its own sul- 
phur. Then the 
goal ©, “our 
gold”, is achieved. 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


197 


Resurrection 


Sol and Luna still 
lie side by side as 
“two different 
things” in the 
glass coffin of the 
retort (Snow 
White!). After 
putrefaction they 
will be resurrected 
as “one thing from 
two” (Rebis). 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


Without death by 
burning (candle) 
no resurrection 
can occur, for in 
ashes lies the “salt 
of glory” (cross 
and cube: salt of 
tartar), which 
brings new life 
(blossoming tree- 
trunk). The pea- 
cock on the church 
tower signals the 
next, brightly 
coloured phase. 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


198 


Opus Macnum: Resurrection Orus Macnum: Resurrection 


Resurrection 


The “dark material 
fire” of the black 
sun divides spirit 
and soul from the 
putrefied body. 
“You should know 
that the head of 
art is the raven. 

If someone cuts 
off its head, it 
loses its blackness 
and will attract 
the wisest colour 
ofall. 


D. Stolcius von 
Stofcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


“Decay is a won- 
derful smith”, who 
transfers one ele- 
ment to the other: 
“It makes such 
changes without 
respite, until 
heaven and earth 
melt together into 
a glassy clump”. 
(A. Kirchweger, 
Aurea Catena, 
Homeri, 1781) 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


199 


Resurrection . 
Resurrection 


“O unhappy man! 
Condemned to 
draw thy breath in 
this gruesome 


“In stony sleep” 
Urizen has sep- 
arated from Etern- 


body of Death.” ity and will be 
hatched as the 
Pia Desideria, Hptiy 2B fp Bhs i body of the world: 
Hermann Hugo, pile oath waceitd wi Steeda : “Ages on ages 
S ; o y eeu . 
Antwerp, 1659 2 vhure the dark chanBes G Bole CFF rolled over him! 
= (...) Ina horrible 


7 ar t 
pitten.| f ears 
BLS ‘er aa oe } Camis é 

i fa i , 3 : 


th ' 4 de dreamful slumber, 
LE PEVAT OF OR OG OF ALS 


/ Like the linked 
infernal chain, /A 
vast spine writhed 
in torment / upon 
the winds, shoot- 
ing pained / Ribs, 
like a bending 
cavern, / And 
bones of solidness 
froze / Over all his 
nerves of joy (...).” 
(W. Blake) 


“Just as in man the 
skull is a cover and 
encloser of the 
brain (...), satur- 
nine force is also 
a cover, drier and 
container of all 
fleshliness and 
comprehensibil- 
ity.” (J. Bohme, 
Aurora) 


Sains 


W. Blake, The Book 
of Urizen, Lambeth, 
1794 


LA 


j 

Fut 
VAN 
fy) 


ne 
A 
; Peay 


200 Opus Macnum: Resurrection 


Opus Macnum: Resurrection 201 


Aurora 


Blake integrated 
the Paracelsian 
concept of the 
“inner volcano” 
(Archeus) into the 
figure of Los, the 
prophet of the 
imagination, 
whom he referred 
to as the “fabrica- 
tor and workman 
of all things”. He is 
the mysterious fire 
which, in inner 
nature, transforms 
the divine spirit 
into matter. 


The Paracelsian 
Sendivogius re- 
ferred to him as 
“the central sun, 
the heart of the 
world” (Los, ana- 
gram of sol, or 
soul). Urizen’s sa- 
tanic separation 
from eternity 
drags him into the 
abyss to which he 
must hencefor- 
ward impart form 
and shape. 


W. Blake, The Book 
of Urizen, Lambeth, 
1794 


202 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


Ovus Macnum: Aurora 


Aurora 


Urizen, master of 
the material sun, 
once possessed 
eternal youth, and 
embodied “trust 
and certainty” be- 
fore his separation 
from Eternity. He 
then became the 
incarnation of de- 
structive doubt 
and calculating 
reason. 


However stark the 
oppositions of 
Urizen and Los 

“in the world of 
procreation” -in 
Eternity they were 
identical twins. 
“(...) in anguish Ur- 
izen was rent from 
his (Los’) side” 


W. Blake, The Book 


of Urizen, Lambeth, 
1794 


203 


Aurora 


204 


Saturn as ruler of the two signs of the zo- 
diac, Aquarius and Capricorn. His children 
included the needy and the poor, peasants 
bound to the soil, lonely hermits, prison- 
ers and murderers, but also the represen- 
tatives of geometrical and astronomical 
scholarship. “The ancient pagans saw Sat- 
urn not only as time, but also as the Prima 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


Materia of all metal things, under whose 
natural-alchymistic rule lay the truly 
golden age.” (Heinrich Khunrath, Vom 
hylealischen Chaos, Frankfurt edition, 
1708) 


De Sphaera, Italian manuscript, 15th century 


King sun rules the zodiac sign of Leo. 

Play and competition express the proud 

physicality of his children. While Saturn 

fepresents the immature, poisonous initial 
‘tage of matter, Sol signifies its final ma- 

(urity after it has passed through all seven 
pheres. 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


Aurora 


For Julius Sperber the circumference (Sat- 
urn as the outermost planet) is nothing but 
the unfolded centre (Sol) and vice versa. 


De Sphaera, Italian manuscript, 15th century 


205 


Aurora 


The black sun is 
the outer sun, 
whose “dark, con- 
suming fire” 
brings everything 
to decay. After 
Adam’s fall, 
tainted by Original 
Sin, man is made 
“from the black 
sun’s fire”, accord- 
ing to the Book of 
the Holy Trinity. In 
Arabic alchemy, 
“the blackness 

or the shadow of 
the sun” is alsoa 
code name for the 
impurities of com- 
mon gold, which 
must be washed 
away. 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 

76th century 


206 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


Aurora 


The inner sun as an 
image of the lapis, 
the red-winged 
lion: “He tears 
man from this vale 
of tears and re- 
leases him, that is: 
from the despon- 
dency of poverty, 
of illness, and lifts 
him with his wings 
with praise and 
honour from the 
stinking Egyptian 
waters, which are 
the daily thoughts 
of mortal man 
(...)”. (Nicolas 
Flamel, Chymische 
Wercke, Hamburg 
edition, 1681) 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 

16th century 


207 


Aurora 


208 


The first part of the ‘Aurora consurgens’ (the rising dawn) is a hymn 
to wisdom (Sophia), interspersed with chymically interpreted pas- 
sages from the Song of Solomon. 

The upper illustration depicts Sophia as Aurora, as the “golden 
hour” (aurea hora), signifying the end of the night of unknowing and 
destructive material corruption. Here she suckles the philosophers 
with her “virgin milk”, the Mercurial water. With the royal crown “of 
the rays of twelve, shining stars” on her head, and the final redden- 
ing in her face, she embodies the “so/ar celestial Sophia”, while the 
black figure below represents the /unar Sophia, who has descended 
into matter and become caught in it. In the text she is compared with 
the Queen of Sheba, who says in the Song of Solomon that she is as 
black as the daughters of Cedar: “Look not upon me, because | am 
black, because the sun has looked upon me”. Now she calls for help 
from the depths of matter: “The black depths have covered my 
face and the earth is corrupt and sullied in my works, and darkness 
has fallen upon it, as | am sunk in the mire of the depths and my 
substance has not been opened”. (In: C.G. Jung, Mysterium conjunc- 
tionis, Zurich, 1957) 

According to Fulcanelli, “in hermetic symbolism the black 
Madonnas represent the virgin earth, which the artist must choose as 
the subject of his work. It is the Prima Materia in its mineral state, 
and it comes from the ore-bearing seams buried deep beneath the 
masses of stone.” (Fulcanelli, Le Mystére des Cathédrales, Paris, 1964) 

Sophia (cf. p. 404 ff.) in Gnosticism and in the Cabala bears both 
the features of a virgin bride and those of the womb, the mater mate- 
riae. The seed that falls into it, according to the Aurora consurgens, 
produces a threefold fruit. And this fruit in her body is the tripartite 
Caduceus, the Christ-Mercury, the healing serpent, the curing water 
that flows into Hades to awaken the dead bodies of the metals and 
free his mother-bride. This is the beginning stage of the “whiten- 
ing”: her clothes are now “purer than the snow”, and to her husband 
she will gives wings like those of a dove, to fly away with him in the 
sky. 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


Aurora 


“(...) Thus the 
Dawn at the peak 
of reddening is the 
end of all darkness 
and the banish- 
ment of night, that 
wintry time that 
one will knock 
against if one wan- 
ders into it and 
does not take 
care.” 


“Turn to me with 
your whole heart 
and do not despise 
me because | am 
black and dark, 

for the sun has 
burned me so, and 
the black depths 
have covered my 
face.” 


Here, Sophia is 
standing on the 
full moon, whose 
silver pigment is 
oxydized over 
time. 


Aurora consurgens, 
late 14th century 


209 


Aurora 


The dark back- 
ground is the in- 
nermost hidden 
aspect of God. Ina 
free translation of 
the Cabalistic En- 
Sof (the infinite), 
Bohme referred 
to him as the “un- 
ground”. Inthe 
virgin mirror of 
wisdom, the divine 
will recognizes it- 
self and “imagines 
from the unground 
in itself (...) and 
impregnates itself 
with imagination 
from wisdom (...) 
as a mother with- 
out childbirth” 
(cf. p. 388). 


“Around the red 
dawn, day separ- 
ates from night/ 
and each is recog- 
nized in his nature 
and strength: for 
without oppo- 
sition nothing is 
revealed/ no im- 
age appears in the 
clear glass/ so no 
page is darkened 
(...)”. (G. Gichtel) 


J. Bohme, Theo- 


sophical Works, 
Amsterdam, 1682 


210 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


Aurora 


Runge planned the 
painting as part of 
acycle on the four 
seasons as the 
“four dimensions 
of the created 
spirit”. Morning 
represents “the 
boundless enlight- 
enment of the uni- 
verse”, night (the 
black sun on the 
lower edge 

of the painting) 
“the boundless 
destruction of 
existence in the 
origin of the uni- 
verse”. Light is 
symbolized in the 
lily, and the three 
groups of children 
“relate to the trin- 
ity”. 


Lily and dawn sym- 
bolize the rise of 
the age of the 
Holy Spirit. “A lily 
blossoms, over 
mountain and 
vale, at all ends of 
the earth.” (J. 
Bohme, De sig- 
natura rerum) 


Ph.O. Runge, Der 


kleine Morgen, 
Hamburg, 1808 


211 


Aurora 


“The soul is an eye 
of fire, or a mirror 
of fire, wherein 
the Godhead has 
revealed itself (...). 
It is a hungry fire, 
and must have be- 
ing, otherwise it 
becomes a dark 
and hungry val- 
ley.” The darkness 
is hidden at the 
centre of light, 
and anyone who 
wishes arrogantly 
to go beyond God, 
like Lucifer, is left 
with only dark- 
ness. Thus it is 
best for the soul to 
linger ina “calm” 
middle region 
between spiritual 
heights and deep 
humility. 


J. Bohme, 
Theosophische 
Wercke, Amster- 
dam, 1682 


212 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


tees ete ners rena ENC aN OTE SAT Eo 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


Aurora 


“Thus we under- 
stand the soul; 
that itis an 
awakened life 
from God’s eye; its 
primal state is in 
fire, and fire is its 
life: but if it does 
not go from the 
fire with its will 
and imagination 
into the light, as 
if through grim 
death into the 
other Principium, 
into the Love-Fire, 
it remains in its 
own original fire, 
and has nothing 
(...) but bitter fury, 
a desire in the 
fire, aconsuming 
and a hunger; 

and yet an eternal 
quest which is 
eternal fear.” 


J. Bohme, 
Theosophische 
Wercke, Amster- 
dam, 1682 


213 


Aurora 


“This world stands 
in the confused 
life of time be- 
tween light and 
darkness as an ef- 
fective reflection 
of both.” It is the 
third principle, 
and its form “has 
been in God’s 
nature for ever, 
but invisible and 
immaterial”. It was 
uttered by the 
spirit of God into 
the matrix of his 
wisdom (Sophia), 
where it can now 
be discerned in 
the light of God as 
his creation. And 
as this world is 
threefold and was 
enfolded in the di- 
vine trinity, “the 
human spirit (...) 
also has all three 
principia, as The 
Realm of God, 

the Realm of Hell 
and this Realm of 
the World within 
itself”. 


J, Bohme, 


Dreyfaches Leben, 
Amsterdam, 1682 


214 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


Aurora 


The visible world 
of the elements, 
the third principle, 
is amonstrous 
product of the 
world of darkness 
as the manifesta- 
tion of the raging 
God-the-Father 
and the world of 
light as the prin- 
ciple of the Son 
“who is his 
Father's Heart and 
Love”. 


We must imagine 
these two worlds 
as the interaction 
of two wheels, 
each of them con- 
sisting of the three 
qualities of salt, 
sulphur and mer- 
cury. These are 
expressed in the 
dark root principle 
as the astringent, 
the bitter and 

the fire of fear. 
Friction produces 
a flash of fire from 
them, the “fire- 
crack”. When it 
comes into its 
mother, “astrin- 
gency”, it be- 
comes the source 
of the second 
principle of light, 
“impenetrable 
love”. 


J, Bohme, 


Drey Principia, 
Amsterdam, 1682 


215 


Light & 
Darkness 


“All things origin- 
ated from the 
fire-rootasa 
twofold birth” in 
light (Wohl = 
good) and dark- 
ness (Wehe = ill). 


“In this world, love 
and anger are in- 
side one another, 
in all creatures, 
and man has both 
centres within 
himself.” 


“Each man is free 
and is like his own 
God, in this life he 
may turn himself 

into anger or into 
light.” 


J. BOhme, 
Theosophische 
Wercke, Amster- 
dam, 1682 


216 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


SS 


"as Sa 
TAC OB 
| 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Light & 
Darkness 


At the intersection 
of light and the 
world of darkness, 
the human and the 
divine eye meet 
and merge ina 
visionary “look- 
ing-through”, 
which emerges 
“as a flash in the 
centre”. 


The trumpet and 
the lily, the two 
ends of the 
pointer, herald the 
coming of the end 
of the world and 
the beginning of 
the age of the 
Holy Ghost. The 
seven circles are 
the qualities of 
nature, the days of 
the Creation and 
the spirits of God. 
The inner alphabet 
signifies “the 
revealed natural 
language”, which 
names all things 
“sensually”, i-e., 
directly, according 
to their innermost 
quality. It was lost 
through Adam‘s 
Fall from number 
1, the divine unity. 


J. Bohme, 
Theosophische 
Wercke, 
Amsterdam, 1682 


217 


Light & 
Darkness 


218 


The two angels in the apocalyptic setting 
symbolize the hermetic fundamental 
forces of dissolution (solve: mercury) and 
binding (coagula: sulphur). Bohme re- 
ferred to them as “the yes and no inall 
things”. 


In the exaggerated idealization of Bohme 
as a “Philosophus Teutonicus”, or the 
“Hans Sachs of German philosophy”, 
bestowed upon him because of his great 
influence on Romanticism and the philo- 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


sophy of German idealism, there was a 
tendency to ignore his deep affinity to 

the ideas of the Jewish Cabala, which was 
“noted by his earliest adversaries but, 
strange to say, has been forgotten by 
more recent writers”. (Gershom Scholem, 
On the Kabbalah and its Symbols, New York, 
1967) 


Engraving, 1675, in: Jacob Bohme und 
G6rlitz, Ein Bildwerk, Gorlitz, 1924 


In 1600, at the age of twenty-five, according to the testimony of his 
pupil and biographer Abraham von Frankenberg, the shoemaker 
Jacob Béhme was “seized by the divine light (...) and at the sudden 
sight of a pewter vessel (the sweet, jovial gleam) led to the inner- 
most ground or centre of secret nature”. 

By Béhme’s own account, he had broken through the portals of 
Hell for the duration of a quarter of an hour. “I recognized and saw in 
myself all three worlds (...) and recognized the whole of Being in Evil 
and Good, the way one originates in the other (...). | saw through as 
into a chaos with everything in it, but | could not undo it.” He recog- 
nized “that all things consist of Yes and No”, and these “are not two 
things side by side, but only one thing (...). Were it not for these two, 
which are in constant conflict, all things would be Nothing, and 
would stand still and motionless.” 

Only in the constant conflict of the seven properties of nature, 
in the turning of the “wheel of anguish”, is nature revealed. “Bohme 
was the first to understand cosmic life as a passionate struggle, a 
movement, a process, an eternal genesis. It was only such a direct 
knowledge of cosmic life that made ‘Faust’ possible, made Darwin 
possible, Marx, Nietzsche.” (Nicolas Berclyaev, Underground and 
Freedom, 1958). 

Like his precursor, the Lutheran minister Valentin Weigel 
(1533-1588), Bohme is ina tradition of “visionary optics”, leading 
from Augustine and Boethius to Hugo de St Victoire (1096-1141). It 
distinguished between three ascending levels of vision: the eye of 
the flesh, of reason and of mystical contemplation. For Bohme, no 
knowledge can be gained “with the corporeal eyes”, “but with the 
eyes in which life gives birth to itself in me”. He referred to it as “see- 
ing through to the ground”, “above and outside of nature”. 

It is characteristic of Bohme’s great influence on the most di- 
verse trends that he was able both to provide arguments for staunch 
critics of Newton’s materalist conception of the world, such as 
Goethe and Blake, but also inspire Newton himself to formulate his 
theories of gravity and the composition of light. Also present in 
Bdéhme’s work, even before Kepler, is the visionary insight into the el- 
liptical orbits of the planets, produced by the polarity of two 
focuses or centres. 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Light & 
Darkness 


219 


Light & 
Darkness 


220 


Asummary of Bohme’s system: 

The outermost circle “is the great Mystery of the Abyss, as the divine 
being in the mirror of wisdom (Sophia) gives birth to itself in the 
Byss”. This divine procreation through the self-reflection of the ori- 
ginal Nothing is the basic dialectical threefold step of creation. 

The name of God, ADONAI (top sphere) “indicates the opening 
or self-propulsion of the unground, eternal unity”. Within it lie six 
intersecting seed-forces. In the central letter S lies the mystery of 
divine androgynity: it stands both for Sophia and for the virgin Son. 

In the divine in- and exhalation of the three syllables of the 
tetragrammaton JE-HO-VA as the eternal exchange of diastole and 
systole, solve et coagula, the involving principle of the wrathful 
father emerges as the first counterbirth: the dark world. It consists 
of three properties: 

1. The self-centred attracting force (Saturn). From it spring astrin- 
gency, hardness and cold. 

2. The repellent force of “stinging bitterness”, also called the “sting 
of sensitivity”. From it emerge mercurial mobility and sensual life. 
3. From the opposition of attraction and repulsion (1+2) results the 
rotating “wheel of anxiety” (Mars). 

4. Through friction and rotation, a flash or “Schrack” (fire-crack) is 
produced in the fourth property, the twofold fire of light and 
darkness. Finally, the third principle emerges from this, bipolar, 
four-elemental nature and all created life. The second exhaling prin- 
ciple of the son, which rises in the bright spirit-fire, consists of the 
properties: 

5. Light or love, the true spirit (Venus). 

6. Sound, tone: the joyful flow of the five senses (Jupiter). 

7. The essentiality, “the Great Mystery”, or the actual substance of 
the visible world (Luna-Sophia). 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Light & 
Darkness 


According to 
Bohme, the an- 
cient sages had 
named the planets 
after these seven 
properties of na- 
ture, “but in this 
they understood 
much more, not 
only the seven 
stars, but also the 
seven kinds of 
properties in the 
procreation of all 
beings. There is 
nothing in the be- 
ing of all beings 
that does not con- 
tain seven proper- 
ties; for they are 
the wheel of the 
centre, the causes 
of sulphur, in 
which Mercury 
makes the liquid 
for the torment of 
fear”. Allseven 
“are born simultan- 
eously and within 
each other, and 
none is the first, 
none the last”. 


D.A. Freher, in: 
Works of 

J. Behmen, Law 
Edition, 1764 


221 


Light & 
Darkness 


The divine light 
irradiates all 
things equally, but 
this is assimilated 
in different ways: 
the lower, coarse 
heart swallows it 
like a black hole, 
the upper, subtle 
heart absorbs and 
emits it. 


R. Fludd, 


Philosophia Sacra, 
Frankfurt, 1626 


222 


i 


ly 


a 
Wy, 


“The figure of God is twofold. He has a head of light and a head of 
darkness, a white and a black, an upper and a lower”, according 

to the Sefer ha-Zohar, the Book of Splendour. It was written in 13th- 
century Spain, and after 1500 its influence was unparalleled, extend- 
ing far beyond Jewish circles. 

Fludd referred to the light and the dark aspect ina single God, 
his wanting (voluntas) and not-wanting (noluntas). “God is good, 
whether he wants or does not want, for in God there is no evil.” In 
the work of B6hme, too, the severity or anger of God is not in itself.a 
negative aspect. Only when Lucifer incited this anger did it become 
“a grim sting of death and a bitter poison”. 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


The primaterial dark chaos (left) is the 
centripetal principle in God, “where his 
rays are aimed at his own centre”. But 
cleep within it lies “the cornerstone of 
light”. The creative centrifugal principle of 
light (right) is embodied by Apollo. Seven 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


times by day it recreates the man dismem- 
bered at night by his alter ego Dionysus. 


R. Fludd, Philosophia Moysaica, 
Gouda, 1638 


223 


Light & 
Darkness 


“In the picture 
man stands at the 
centre, as be- 
tween the realms 
of God and Hell, as 
between love and 
anger; whichever 
spirit it makes its 
own, to that spirit 
it belongs (...)”. 


“We have the 
Centrum Naturae 
in ourselves; If we 
make an angel out 
of ourselves, that 
is what we are; if 
we make a devil 
out of ourselves, 
that too is what 
we are; we are all 
at work, creating, 
we are standing in 
the field.” 

(J. Bohme) 


D.A. Freher, Para- 
doxa Embiemata, 
Manuscript, 18th 
century 


28 a7 


(es nd pofial 
all fe Yer 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Var toe es 24 
OA ee de i she 


Ve em 
irre) 


In 1790, as an advocate of revolutionary 
ideals of freedom, and an opponent of all 
moral and state subordination, Blake 
wrote The Marriage of Heaven and Hell, a 
spirited polemic against the traditional 
identification of good and evil as soul and 
body. “But the following (...) are true: (...) 
Man has no body distinct from his soul, 
for that called body is a portion of soul 
discerned by the five senses (...). Energy 
is the only life and is from the body; and 
reason is the (...) outward cifcumference 
of energy”. According to one Cabalistic 
idea, the lower worlds were produced by 
the reflection of the upper lights, and 
accordingly all earthly values and moral 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


ideas are reflected. Blake likens this prob- 
lem of re-evaluation to the problem of 
mirror reversal in the printing process. 


The illustration above refers to a vision of 
Bohme, in which heaven and hell are 
within one another, “and yet neither is ap- 
parent to the other”. 


The divine, fertile angels “are in the gentle 
water's matrix”, and the hellish and infer- 
tile “are enclosed in the hard fire of 
anger”. (BOhme) 


W. Blake, The good and evil angels, 
€. 1793-1794 


Light & 
Darkness 


225 


Light & 
Darkness 


J.A. Siebmacher’s 
Wasserstein der 
Weisen (1618) is 
among the chymi- 
cal-Christological 
works in which the 
curative effect of 
the mercurial lapis 
is compared to the 
“celestial corner- 
stone”, 


226 


“So we must seek light; but it is so thin and spiritual that we cannot 

touch it with our hand: so we must seek its dwelling-place, the celes- 

tial, ethereal, oily substance.” It was in these terms that the English 

Rosicrucian Thomas Vaughan (writing under the pseudonym of 

Philalethes) postulated his theory of light, a few years before his 

compatriot Newton performed experiments in which he put light, 
which in his view consisted of a stream of hard 
corpuscles, “on the rack”. (Goethe) 

However, it was not the victorious, mechan- 
istic, corpuscular theory which prevailed in the 
17th century, but the old, alchemical idea of the 
“cohesive quality of oiliness” as a sulphurous 
condensing principle based on the theory of 
gravity and electrical attraction. (Gad Freuden- 
thal, Die elektrische Anziehung im 17. Jh. (...) in: 
Die Alchemie in der europaischen Kultur- and 
Wissenschaftsgeschichte, Wiesbaden, 1986) 

In his hermetic treatise ‘Siris’, Bishop George 
Berkley put forward his conviction that gold could 
be produced by condensing light and by allowing 
it “into the pores of quicksilver”. Newton also worked from the 
premise that light could be converted into matter and vice versa. 
This connection has not yet been shown to be untenable. On the 
contrary: the discoveries of 20th-century physics all lead to the con- 
clusion that matter is condensed light. 

The Paracelsian concept of the “light of nature” running through 
all visible and invisible levels of nature is connected to the gnostic 
idea of the inner light or the divine spark, which is enclosed within 
the darkness of matter, illuminating it from the centre. 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Light & 
Darkness 


Here, the English 
Rosicrucian 
Thomas Vaughan 
(1622-1666) tells 
of his encounter 
with Thalia, the 
personification of 
blossoming nature. 
After a violent 
lament at her rape 
by the laboratory 
chymists she leads 
him to the philo- 
sophical, lunar 
mountains of salt, 
from which the 
Nile of the sper- 
matic prima mate- 
ria springs. The 
darkness of the 
region represents 
the incorrect Aris- 
totelian doctrines, 
in which one wan- 
ders dround, until 
one discovers the 
invisible, divine 
"light of nature” in 
the Sal Alkali. The 
green dragon is 
the “philosopher's 
mercury”, whose 
treasure can only 
be found by those 
who are as pure as 
children. 


Eugenius Philalet- 
hes (T. Vaughan), 
Lumen de Lumine, 
Hamburg, 1693 


227 


Light & 
Darkness 


By the beginning 
of the 17th cen- 
tury, the reception 
of the Cartesian 
corpuscular theory 
showed that the 
transition was un- 
der way from an 
organic under- 
standing of nature 
to one that was 
mathematical and 
mechanical. Labo- 
ratory chymists 
and followers of 
traditional 
alchemy, now 
mocked as 
“Paracelsian fan- 
atics”, were in- 
creasingly irrecon- 
cilable adver- 
saries, as can be 
seen here in the 
title engraving for 
Johann Kunckel’s 
‘Ars vitraria’: on 
the left, the Experi- 
mentia, whose 
“light of nature” 
is ignited by the 
Sun of Truth in 
the burning glass 
of Reason; on the 
right is “Unrea- 
son” and lunatic 
“Fantasy”, both 
of which wander 
in the darkness of 
foolishness. 


Johann Kunckel, 
Ars vitraria experi- 
mentalis, Nurem- 
berg, 1744 


228 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


ROE: 


AVC TORE 
SACRA 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Light & 
Darkness 


Of Kircher’s Ars 
magna lucis et um- 
brae, Goethe 
writes in his His- 
tory of Colour The- 
ory: “Here for the 
first time it is 
clearly suggested 
that light, shade 
and colour should 
be considered as 
the elements of 
seeing; although 
the colours are 
represented as 
the monstrous 
product of the 
first two.” 


Here, light and 
shade, as the 
Habsburg double- 
headed eagle, are 
assigned to the 
Sun (Apollo), and 
the colours, as a 
peacock, to the 
Moon (Diana). 

The beams of light 
represent degrees 
of knowledge, in 
which the sensor- 
ily perceptible in 
the Platonic sense, 
only achieves the 
status of a faint 
reflection of the 
divine light in the 
dark cave of the 
body. 


A. Kircher, Ars 


magna lucis, Rome, 
1665 


229 


Light & 
Darkness 


In his Ars magna 
lucis Kircher pro- 
vided the first 
descriptions of a 
Laterna Magica, 
thus making it 
popular. This 
apparatus for the 
projection of 
pictures painted 
on glass was a di- 
rect predecessor 
of the slide and 
film projector. 
Much of its devel- 
opment was due 
to the optical ex- 
periments of 
Giambattista della 
Porta (1535-1615), 
who can in many 
respects be seen 
as Kircher’s 
precursor. 


A. Kircher, 


Ars magna lucis, 
Amsterdam, 1671 


230 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Light and shade 


PRG 


Optical illusions 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Light & 
Darkness 


“Visible world. To 
construct it from 
light and darkness. 
Or break it down 
into light and 
darkness. That is 
the task, for the 
visible world, 
which we take to 
be a unity, is most 
agreeably con- 
structed from 
those two begin- 
nings.” (Goethe, 
Lectures on 
Physics, 1806) 


Franciscus Aguilo- 
nius, Optica, 1671 


231 


Light & 
Darkness 


No. 1. Form and 
matter, spiritual 
and physical 
principle as a light 
and dark comb. 


No. 2. The combs 
can be depicted as 
two hemispheres, 
“the upper one 
corresponding to 
the male, genera- 
tive nature, and 
the other to the 
female, receptive 
to the seed of 
light. This material 
hemisphere is like 
wax which is 
formed by the seal 
of the spirit”. 


R. Fludd, 


Utriusque Cosmi, 
Oppenheim, 1619 


232 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Light & 
Darkness 


The great sex act 
of heaven and 
earth: 


“The actual prod- 
uct of this mixture 
can be seen in 

No. 2, in which the 
spiritual fire de- 
clines by degrees 
as it approaches 
the earth.” 


The divine sperm- 
atic influx is the 
famous dew of the 
alchemists, which 
should only be 
collected on 
spring nights, 
when the sky is 
completely clear 
and the tempera- 
ture is mild. 


R. Fludd, 


Utriusque Cosmi, 
Oppenheim, 1679 


233 


Light & 
Darkness 


From the central 
earth, two bal- 
anced lines of 
force pull the 
sixty-three layers 
of the upper and 
lower worlds of 
the Hindu cosmos. 
The red back- 
ground represents 
the endless spatial 
mass consisting of 
atomic particles. 


Gouache on paper, 
Rajasthan, c. 1800 


234 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Light & 
Darkness 


“\ confess before 
my God that | 
could say so much 
about the possible 
uses of these two 
pyramids that | 
could easily fill a 
huge volume.” 
(Fludd, Philosoph- 
ical Key, c. 1619) 


The upper third is 
the region of the 
divine, fiery 
heaven (Empyran), 
the lower of the 
elemental heaven. 
The central 
sphere, which con- 
sists of equal parts 
of upper light and 
lower matter, 
Fludd assigned to 
the ether, the 
“fiery air”. The 
path of the sun 
runs straight 
through the inter- 
sections, “which 
Platonists there- 
fore referred to as 
the sphere of the 
soul (sol).” 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 


Cosmi, Oppenheim, 
1619 


235 


Light & 
Darkness 


236 


No other medieval thinker so crucially in- 
fluenced the hermetic and theosophical 
systems of the 16th and 17th centuries as 
the Neoplatonic universal scholar Nikolaus 
of Cusa, or Cusanus (1401-1464). His con- 
cept of the coincidence of all opposites in 
God and consequent speculations about 
the infinity of the universe and human 
existence helped to colour the views of 


basis pyramis tenebrae 


spony] stuvsXd stseq 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Marsilio Ficino and Pico della Mirandola 
and influenced Giordano Bruno. In his 
most important theorems Fludd builds 
upon this concept, and through the influ- 
ence of Valentin Weigel some aspects of 
Cusanus’ epistemology flowed into the 
works of Jacob B6hme. 


In his text ‘On conjecture’ (De coniecturis, 
c. 1440) Cusanus uses two diagrams to 
explain his theory of the four levels of 
knowledge in which man participates. 


The ‘Figura Paradigmatica’ (P) shows the 
universe in the interpenetration of two 
pyramids, whose two bases he calls unity 
(unitas) and otherness (alteritas). In these 
two, all other opposites are contained: 
God and the Void, Light and Darkness, 
Possibility and Reality, Universal and Par- 
ticular, Male and Female. 


Rise and fall, evolution and involution are 
one and the same. The progress of the one 
is the retreat of the other. “God is in the 
world” is just as valid as “the world is in 
God.” 


Nikolaus of Cusa, MutmaBungen, 
Hamburg edition, 1988 


Sfurpso 


sruip > 


!Onis 


ave 


dine regi 


BS 


L.\sruips° SJuyps°  S!ujp39, 


ionis 


ynfimac fc 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


Ladder 


In Cusanus’ second 
diagram, which 

he entitled ‘Figura 
universi’ (U), 
within the outer 
boundaries of the 
universe there are 
three interlocking 
worlds: the world 
of God, the world 
of intelligence 
and the world of 
the rational soul, 
whose outer crusts 
are the senses. In 
this lower region, 
contradictions 
cannot be recon- 
ciled, in the 
middle region they 
are abolished and 
then ascend in 
complete affirma- 
tion in the upper 
world of God. 


Nikolaus of Cusa, 
MutmaBungen, 
Hamburg edition, 
1988 


In Kircher’s modi- 
fication of the 
figure U the chain 
of worlds, follow- 
ing the theory 

of the pseudo- 
Areopagite, is 
also divided into 
nine choirs, the 
lowest sphere of a 
choir coinciding 
with the topmost 
of the next choir. 


A. Kircher, 


Musurgia Univer- 
salis, Rome, 1650 


237 


Ladder 


The author of the three-volume Aurea 
catena Homeri (1723), said to be an Aus- 
trian doctor by the name of Kirchweger, 
gives a detailed description of the cycle 
of nature as an eternal outflow and return 
of the world spirit ©. As dew or rain it 
reaches the earth, where it condenses into 


Chaos 


Spiritus Mundi vo- 


Spicitus Mundi 


Spicicus Mandi fixus 


Materia primaomniom 
rium immediata 


Mine- 


Spiritus Mundi cone 
ExtraQum Chao- 


PerfeGio confum- 
Effenia 


confufum, 


latilis incorporeus, 


acidus corporeus, 


alcalicus corporeus, 


concretorum fublunae 
feu Azeth, 


malia. 
tabilia, 
salia. 


centratus fixus, five 
ticum purum. 


maca, five Quinta 
Univerfi. 


238 Opus Macnum: Ladder 


solid male saltpetre © and fluid female sal 
alkali. These two produce acidic alkaline 
salt ®. 


Everything elemental consists of these 
three things, and after death and decay it 
forms itself back into dew and rain. 


When Goethe was intensely involved with 
alchemy in 1768/69, he was particularly at- 
tracted by this book, because in it nature 
“albeit perhaps in a fantasic way, is de- 
picted as a lovely association”. It not only 
inspired him to write verses: “As all things 
weave into a whole / one in the other 
works and lives! As the powers of heaven 
rise and fall/ and give each other the 
golden pail” (Faust), but also stimulated 
his own laboratory work. In Dichtung und 
Wahrheit he wrote that these experiments 
required alkalis “which, when they dis- 
perse in the air, connect with superterres- 
trial things and are supposed to produce a 
mysterious, median salt”. 


A.J. Kirchweger, Annulus Platonis (Aurea 
Catena Homeri), 1781, Berlin reprint, 1921 


“The bottom is of Vulcanus, the next shows 
Mercurius, the third is the Moon’s, into 
the top the sun rises, which is the fire of 
nature. Let this chain be your commander, 
that it may guide your hands in art.” The 
lower, elemental fire, whose regulation is 
the alpha and omega of the work, penet- 
rates all the others and magnetically holds 
the chain together. Each fire has its own 
centre and its own movement in the Work, 
and one affects the other. The lunar and 
the mercurial fire are menstrua, strong 
solvents. He calls them dragons, which 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


devour, spur on and transform the serpents 
of their own sex. 


The upper, solar fire is the great arcanum, 
which Paracelsus called the bright “essen- 
tial fire”, in contrast to the dark, elemental 
fire. This fire is the creative agent in the 
Work. Alexander von Bernus noted the 
close kinship of the Latin names Sol and 
Sal. 


Michael Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppen- 
heim, 1618 


Ladder 


“A fourfold sphere 
of fire governs this 
Work.” 


239 


From a series 
about the creation 
of the universe out 
of the creative, 


; i The tree of the 

CY eG i: / © the S OTL: soul is rooted in 
Seed ae te Uf aan : the dark world of 
| ‘Wie Ay divine anger, and 


/ 


the preserving and 
the dissolving 
forces. The inter- 
penetrating 
energy circles 
emanate froma 
single source. 


Painting, Western 
India, c. 18th cen- 
tury 


#40 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


grows in two 
directions: to the 
right is self-will, 
influenced by the 
oppressing “side- 
real spirit of this 
world” and the 
astral influences 
of the lower fiery 
heaven. On the 
left is selflessness, 
illuminated by the 
light of the holy 
spirit. This trunk 
alone leads up- 
wards through the 
four Cabalistic 
worlds or layers of 
the soul. 


D.A. Freher, in: 
Works of 

J. Behmen, Law 
Edition, 1764 


241 


On the left-hand 
track the soul rises 
via the nine steps 
of the empyrean 
and the ethereal 
heavens and then 
falls into the 
elemental realm. 
On the right, it 
descends again. 
Ascending and 
descending, said 
Cusanus, are one 
and the same. The 
“art of conjecture’ 
lies in connecting 
the two witha 
keen intelligence. 


. 


Fludd took the 
division of the 
steps from the 
depictions of the 
Pythagorean 
lambda, put 
forward by the 
Franciscan 
Francesco Giorgio, 
aman interested 
in numerical 
speculations, as 
presented in his 
work De Harmonia 
Mundi (1525). 


R. Fludd, 


Philosophia sacra, 
Frankfurt, 1626 


242 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


ae 


Lcorlestes 


Opus MaAcnum: Ladder 


Ladder 


“Just as the triune 
creator descended 
through the three- 
times-three orders 
of angels to us 
men, so should we 
rise through the 
same, as if on Ja- 
cob’s Ladder, to 
God.” (A. Kircher, 
Musurgia univer- 
salis, 1662 edition) 


The division of the 
upper regions of 
the cosmos into 
the nine choirs of 
angels is taken 
from the work, 
On the heavenly 
hierarchs by the 
Alexandrian 
Pseudo-Dionysius 
(c. A.D. 500). In 
the gth century, it 
was translated 
into Latin by the 
Irishman John 
Scotus Erugiena, 
whose own major 
work, Of the 
division of nature 
described the 
world as an 
emanation from 
God, to whom 

it must inevitably 
return. 


Manuscript, 12th 
century 


243 


Ladder 


Passage from “The ladder of the number 
ten” 


“Through natural things we achieve 
natural forces, through abstract, mathe- 
matical and celestial things, celestial 
forces” wrote Agrippa von Nettesheim 
(1486-1535) in his standard work on magic 
De occulta philosophia, a compilation of 
Neoplatonic ideas, astral magic texts of 
Arab origin and Cabalistic teachings 
mostly taken from the writings of Pico 
della Mirandola. 


The ladder is divided horizontally into six 
steps from the underworld, via the 

world of the elements, to the archetypal 
world, with the ten names of God and the 
Sephiroth. When the magician meditated 
on these ladders and memorized them, 
he wanted “not only to use the forces 
alreacly available in the more noble, na- 
tural objects, but also to draw new ones 
down to himself from above.” 


Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta 
philosophia, 1510 


244 Opus Macnum: Ladder 


In Ar- 7 sm XTRA 
chety- ‘Nomen quadrilitceram col jNomen quadriliterii exten. 
po. »_ le&um decem lirerarum. \ fum decem literarum. 


er 


PATS TI DTN, IN 
Ebeie lod tetra! yyy FEL 


: grammma Tettag. 
i ton 


pa my 
‘ON TN Eoha 
Elohim, 
Elohim Gibor 


ana crest dasa ‘sort | peas nasan 
Keth Hochma Binah Hefed ! Gebuy- {Tiphe- 


, enh reth 
Serie Cheru- “Tr i Domi Vin 
In mun ry biont Domi- vocetta- 
dointel Phim — bim * natides ces res 


ligibili. . Haioth Ophanim} Aralim pafma+ Seta. {Malae 


vhaKas ¢ li hi chim 
dos é [ is ba 
Metat :Jophiel {7 Ife | ZadKiel Camael} 8a pia 
tron i Kie el 
a “Ketchit Masloch”| Sabbasa “Zedech| Madim [She 
‘do coz.) bagal= thai mes 
: lalim ‘ 
lefti. ee 
: Primi ‘splices Sphara : 
mobile zodiaci | Saturni! Sphara] sonora} SPheta 
ee louis ones sels 
Tn man Colum. Pane , 
dgitles +4. La (Draco Aquila Equus, | Leo 
métali 
In mie Splen 7! Hepar 
aes Spiritus Gercbian ap Hepar troy Cor 
mundo - } 
a ee ! 
In mon f teudo spiritus Vala ini, Vitore 


acores | porefta, 


oin SIP i 
ae et thei ;mendacij |quitatis) fcelern | poe tiB Acree 
tes 


err TR ee 


RR 


} iN 
py Nt yh 


In man, various faculties of knowledge — 
sensory perception, the imagination, rea- 
son and deep insight - correspond to the 
tiered arrangement of the macrocosm. The 
last rung is the direct comprehension of 
the divine word in meditation. The ladder 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


extends no further, because God himself 
cannot be comprehended. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. Il, 
Oppenheim, 1619 


Ladder 


245 


Ladder 


Here, the intellect 
stands at the foot 
of the ladder of 
creation, which 
leads upwards 
from the mineral 
realm via the levels 
of plant, animal, 
man and angel up 
to God, where 
Sophia, wisdom, 
has built her 
house. The figure 
symbolizing the 
intellect holds the 
instrument that 

is to enable him 

to climb up and 
down, a disc of the 
ars generalis of the 
Catalan philoso- 
pher and Christian 
mystic Ramon Lull 
(1235-1316). He 
developed this 
“universal know- 
ledge” to convert 
the two world 
religions in com- 
petition with 
Christianity, 
Judaism and Islam, 
by proving to them 
the superiority 

of the Christian 
doctrines. 


Ramon Lull, De 
nova logica, 1512 


246 


& 


Bi 


(533 pe Ravt 
jMat Ss EM 


E af Soaleircus |” 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


Ramon Lull took as absolutely fundamental principles for his work a 
series of nine properties or names of God such as goodness, great- 
ness, power, upon which both Jewish and Islamic mystics meditated. 
To these divine attributes he assigned the letters B-K. The first letter 
was not used, as it was reserved for the secret aspect of God, the En- 
Soph. Furthermore, nine relative predicates, cardinal questions, sub- 
jects, virtues and vices were assigned to the main algebraic key. By 
rotating the discs, on which the series of letters was printed on dif- 
ferent rings, one could obtain all possible combinations of these con- 
cepts, mechanically answer all possible questions and even invent 
new ones. 

The “Ars Raymundi” exerted a great influence because with his 
creation Lull gave a new dynamics to thought, freeing it from the 
restraints of the hierarchial structures of medieval concepts. The 
concepts were now understood relative to one another, in relation- 
ships that were open because they could be reversed. 

Cusanus called this disc-art “circular theology”. The develop- 
ment of his own theory of the coincidence of opposites and the 
boundlessness of all things was only made possible by Lull’s break- 
through. 

Leibniz, the inventor of the German calculator, praised Lull as 
the godfather of mathematically, formalized logic. “Lull’s arith- 
metic dream,” according to Ernst Bloch, had now become “a whole 
industry of ideas, with speed as witchcraft”. (Das Prinzip Hoffnung, 
Frankfurt/Main, 1974) 

The Christian Cabalists posthumously declared him one of their 
own, and from Agrippa von Nettesheim to Giordano Bruno his 
combinatory art was charged with astro-magical ideas. The rotating 
wheel was always the prototype for all developmental processes, 
and could therefore depend on the sympathy of the alchemists, who 
devoted a huge amount of hermetic writing to it. 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


Ladder 


Ramon Lull, Ars 
Brevis, Opera, 
Strasbourg, 1617 


G. Bruno, Opera, 
Naples edition, 
1886 


247 


Ladder Ladder 


Combinatory chart, with the universal sub- 
jects in the middle (upper row: God, angel, 
heaven), top left: the absolute principles, 
the attributes of God (upper row: good- 
ness, greatness, duration), top right: the 
relative principles (top row: difference, 
agreement, opposition), bottom left: nine 
statements, bottom right: nine questions. 


Athanasius Kircher used Lull’s combinatory art as a general method, 
enabling him to link all his individual research into an enormous net- 
work. Kircher shared the Cabalistic view, that creation is a combina- 
tory act, a process of multiplication by endless permutation of the 
nine, revealed, divine, attributes or Sephiroth. In this view the whole 


universe is nothing but a construction of structural analogies and 
A. Kircher, Ars magna sciendi, 


correspondences that follows the laws of logic and harmonic propor- jhe ek a 


tions. 

In his Ars magna sciendi (1669), Kircher constructed a large 
baroque system of signs on the basis of Lull’s work, generally replac- 
ing the terms with “hieroglyphs”. He understood them as having 
symbolic meanings which went far beyond what could be grasped by 


the senses. te Rail Are, Quis Cor, 
dctis, Pafbio , Ubi, Quentin, Rea, Rua, 


Figure A of Lull’s 
‘Ars’. The network 


pn 5 pad ; Fa a5 "Bonitas ~S % i i i Bea “Universal diagram for the formation of 
derline the trini- “a oe a y questions about every possible question. 


tary relationships 
between the nine, 
divine attributes. 
The system is re- 
lated to Gurdji- 
eff’s theory of the 
enneagram. Both 
are taken from the 
source of Sufism, 
the Islamic branch 


A. Kircher, Ars magna sciendi, 
Amsterdam, 1669 


aug 5 Bes 
of mysticism with EPS Ase 

z io i jf j L2 oe. 
Neoplatonic and | een = K f GE SSB SSX ESS, 


Pythagorean influ- i iM J 
ences. YY Se ; pO tte we f os SENN 
<SSERE 
A. Kircher, Ars 
magna sciendi, 
Amsterdam, 1669 


248 Opus Macnum: Ladder Opus Macnum: Ladder 249 


Ladder Ladder 


The thirty rungs 

of the ladder rep- 
resent the thirty 
virtues recited 

by John Klimakos, 
an abbot at St 
Catherine’s 
Monastery in Sinai 
towards the end of 
the 6th century, in 


”The nine philo- 
sophers at the 
right-hand edge 
of the picture 
embody the nine 
doubts, which can 
arise in the face 
of the nine object- 
realms of the 
universe; these 


fod 


eral ened a tea coin sop y! 
i Cunthy BA bins obi ESE, 
+ drionily las eotemill agate = 


nila Garni Prieta Uierselea crecettiennd CUneewilia ee 
apgellt? rnudidoret onde 8 


» 


2.6 
a 
i 3 : a treatise for the 
acne ney ne 
aes monks. They face 
Ramon Lull, uy i 3 the same number 
Previculum, | 3 tee of vices, here em- 
‘ i =] bodied by devils. 
ae a 5 Hi On the topmost 


rungs, most virtu- 
ous of all, marches 
the abbot himself. 


The ‘ladder of 
heaven’ of John 
Klimakos, 

qath Century 


On the second ladder Lull demonstrated _ by the “rope of mercy” which the hand of 
the nine absolute and relative principles: God is lowering. At the top of this hangs 
“(...) these rules guide the willing reason the intellect, followed by memory, the will 
according to certain principles, from the and the seven virtues. The seven vices 
tower of trust, away from the doubs of roast in Hell. (Translated inscriptions: 
your questions, for they embrace the W. Biichel/T. Pindl-Biichel, in: Lullus-le 
causes of everything in existence.” But Myésier, Electorium parvum seu Breviculum, 
the “Ars” ends at the tower. Its summit Wiesbaden, 1988.) 


and the haloed trinity can now be reached 


250 Opus Macnum: Ladder Opus Macnum: Ladder 251 


Ladder 


Froma Jesuit 
devotional book: 
“Consider what 
you intend to do in 
this A hour and 
(...) B direct your 
works and your 
steps (...) towards 
the glory of God, C 
with an ardent 
heart; and you can 
be sure that with- 
out D God’s mercy 
you can do noth- 
ing. (...) Arrange 
your works equally 
according to E 
weight, number 
and measure, just 
as if F you were 
facing death G and 
angels and H dev- 
ils were watching 
all your deeds at- 
tentively. But do] 
good works, just 
as if K your grave 
was already being 
dug (...); complete 
your works L 
according to the 
example of Christ 
and the saints; 

M the angels bring 
them (your works) 
before God. But 
above all (...) al- 
ways bear in mind 
N that God and 
the heavenly host 
are always watch- 
ing you.” 


A, Sucquet, Via 


Vitae Aeternae, 
Antwerp, 1625 


252 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


Ladder 


The ascent into 
the mysteries of 
Freemasonry is 
based on the three 
“Great Lights”: 
Bible, compass 
and square. The 
glyph|©| defines 
the Freemason’s 
task by placing 
him, as a point at 
the centre, in rela- 
tion to the infin- 
ite, circular hori- 
zon. The two ver- 
ticals are the two 
Johns, the Baptist 
and the Evangel- 
ist, who stand by 
him. The Jacob’s 
Ladder represents 
the process that is 
supposed to trans- 
form the raw stone 
(apprentice, Prima 
Materia) into the 
cubic stone (lapis). 


The female fig- 
ures: Faith, Hope 
and Charity. The 
columns: Strength 
(S), Wisdom (W) 
and Beauty (B). 
The board shows 
that the appren- 
tice level is still 
caught up in anti- 
nomian thinking. 


J, Bowring, First 
Degree Board, 1819 


253 


Ladder 


While the ascent 
on the apprentice 
board leads 
straight up a lad- 
der —as an expres- 
sion of the original 
will, following a 
projection - at the 
more advanced 
level of the jour- 
neyman, what we 
now have is a 
curved path in the 
form of a seven- 
step spiral stair- 
case, in which it is 
no longer clear 
where the begin- 
ning and end are. 
This expresses the 
slow and organic 
course of the 
process of spir- 
itual maturity. 
One image of this 
is the ear of corn 
growing beside 
the endless river 
of life. 


J. Bowring, Second 
Degree Board, 1819 


254 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


} 


Wiel 
\ 


\ Bet it 


\ 


Ladder 


The two columns 
of Jachin and Boas 
indicate that we 
are now inside the 
temple of Solo- 
mon. The seven 
steps symbolize 
the seven phases 
of the process, the 
seven levels of 
consciousness and 
the seven liberal 
arts. 


Here, everything 
still occurs in the 
side chambers of 
the temple: the 
holy of holies at 
the centre only 
discloses itself 
“when One has 
come of Two” and 
the portal of death 
and corruption 
has been crossed. 


(cf. p. 195) 
F. Curtis, Work 


Chart for the 2nd 
Level, 1807 


255 


Ladder 


“Improvement 
makes straight 
roads; but the 
crooked roads 
without improve- 
ment are the roads 
of Genius.” 

(W. Blake, 
Marriage of Heaven 
and Hell, 1793) 


Ph. O. Runge, 
Perspektivische 
Konstruction einer 
Wendeltreppe 


“T want! | want!” 


W. Blake, The Gates 
of Paradise, 1793 


256 


Opus Macnum: Ladder Opus Macnum: Ladder 


Ladder 


A ladder appeared 
toJacobina 
dream, “and the 
top of it reached 
to heaven: and 
the angels of God 
were going up and 
down on it”. 
(Genesis 28, 12) 


For Blake, the im- 
age of Jacob’s 
Ladder as a gate 
to heaven was 
closely allied to 
the anatomy of 
the ear, whose 
passages he calls 
“the endlessly 
twisting spiral 
ascents to the 
Heaven of Heavens 
(...).”” According to 
Swedenborg, with 
whose writings 
Blake was familiar, 
the “opening of 
the inner ear” is 
the precondition 
for making contact 
with the higher 
worlds. 


W. Blake, Jacob’s 
Ladder, c. 1800 


257 


Ladder 


1The column 
Jachin 

2 The column 
Boaz 

3 The seven steps 
to the temple 

4 The mosaic 
pavement 

5 The window to 
the west 

6 The trestle 
board for the 
masters 


7 The blazing star | 


8 The window to 
the south 
9 The plumb 

10 The window to 
the east 

11 The level 

12 The rough ashlar 

13 The square 

14 The pointed, 
cubical stone 

15 The tassel 

A The place of 
the Grand 
Master 

B The place of 
the first warden 

C The place of 
the second 
warden 

D The altar 

E The stool 

FGH The three 
lights 


L’ordre des Francs- 


Magons trahi..., 
Amsterdam, 1745 


258 


Manner Re 
‘ AUTOR ANU 


d TOLL oan 


intoncammart han 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


pay ugg 
Lo» £ > 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


Ladder 


The alchemist is 
led astray until the 
fleeting mercurial 
hare indicates the 
correct source 
material, behind 
whose rough fa- 
cade, via the seven 
steps of the pro- 
cess, a palace is 
revealed. Here, 
the principles of 
Sol and Luna unite 
to form the lapis, 
the “philosophical 
mercury”, which 
crowns the dome 
in the form of a 
phoenix. 


The zodiac indic- 
ates that the Work 
begins in May, in 
the sign of Taurus. 
Each sign of the 
zodiac corres- 
ponds to a chemi- 
cal substance. 


S. Michelspacher, 


Cabala, Augsburg, 
1616 


259 


Philosophical 
tree 


This depiction of 
the Sephiroth tree 
is indebted to the 
Opus Magnum. 


The dissolving and 
binding powers sit 
opposite one an- 
other on the 
branches: on the 
bottom left is 
volatile Mercury 
with the winged 
shoes, and to his 
right is the fire- 
spitting Sulphur. 
Above them, diag- 
onally reversed, 
are their forms ina 
sublimated and 
crowned state. On 
the top level, the 
third Work, the 
two unite as the 
lunar tincture. 
From this there 
finally emerges 
the solid sulphur, 
the son of the 

sun. He wears the 
crowns of the 
three realms, veg- 
etable, animal and 
mineral. 


J.D. Mylius, 


Anatomia auri, 
Frankfurt, 1628 


260 


Opus Macnum: Philosophical tree 


Opus Macnum: Philosophical tree 


Philosophical 
tree 


“Plant this tree on 
the lapis (...) that 
the birds of the 
sky come and 
reproduce on its 
branches; it is 
from there that 
wisdom rises.” 
(Theatrum 
chemicum) 


Aeneas, draped in 
majestic red, re- 
ceives from his son 
Silvius a branch of 
the tree of life, to 
protect him on his 
journey through 
decay and the 
purifying fires of 
the underworld. 
The good end isin 
sight, for accord- 
ing to Trismosin 
the raven’s head 
has turned white. 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 

16th century 


261 


Sephiroth 


262 


The Sephiroth tree is at the core of the Cabala, its most influential 
and multi-layered symbol. The Sephiroth are the ten, primal numbers 
which, in combination with the twenty-two letters of the Hebrew 
alphabet, represent the plan of creation of all upper and lower 
things. They are the ten names, attributes or powers of God, and 
form a pulsating organism called the “mystical face of God” or the 
“body of the universe”. It stands on the three pillars of mercy (right), 
severity (left) and central balance. The central pillar forms the spine 
through which the divine dew flows down into the lower womb. In 
creation only the effects of the seven lower Sephiroth are visible, the 
upper triad works outside time and beyond understanding. In the 
system of the four worlds it corresponds to the divine light-world 
(aziluth), which is separated by a veil from the two lower triads of the 
throne-world (beriah) and the world of angels (yezirah). The lowest 
Sephira, Malchut, is identified with Assia, the spiritual prototype of 
the material world. 


1 Kether supreme crown, initial will 
2 Chochma_ wisdom, seed of all things 


3 Bina intelligence, upper matrix 


4 Chessed love, mercy, goodness 


5 Gebura severity, punitive power 


6 Tiphereth generosity, splendour, 


beauty 
7 Nezach constant endurance, victory 
8 Hod magnificence, majesty 
9 Jesod ground of all procreative 


powers 


10Malkuth kingdom, the dwelling of 
God in creation 


Opus Macnum: Sephiroth 


$ a4 ‘4 =! 
tees of 


‘ay 


S 


i. 


rn 
m 
cys) one 
ret 
~" 
heel 
we ‘ hed 
Tose sng i shi ee 
Aw 
ee Whar 
riety Rs oe 
ebaipiel return “me 
eats ak Tas 
Nestle nen te 
ha) 4 the pena 
pine in 5 tute in 
a £ rn 
og 
wm £ wt 
aS E lm 
ee E 
Sw ote & me 
SS a a 
ree = oe 


Opus Macnum: Sephiroth 


Sephiroth 


After the expul- 
sion of the Jews 
from Spain in 
1492, the charis- 
matic Isaac Luria 
founded a new in- 
fluential centre of 
Cabalistic exegesis 
at Safed in Upper 
Galilee. His mysti- 
cism was charac- 
terized by the 
queston of the ori- 
gin of evil. Accord- 
ing to one doc- 
trine of the Zohar, 
evil arose from an 
eruption of the 
Sephira of “sever- 
ity” (5), when it 
was separated by 
a blockage of the 
intermediary 
channel from the 
mitigating influ- 
ence of divine love 
(4). For Luria, this 
was caused by a 
cosmic fracture 
and by the fall of 
the lower Sephi- 
roth, unable to 
bear the penetra- 
tion of the upper 
stream of light in 
primal times. The 
spiritual light is 
now scattered in 
matter and can 
only be led back 
to the desolate 
divine organism 
by good deeds 

on the part of the 
individual. 


Sephiroth tree after 


Isaac Luria, 
Amsterdam, 1708 


263 


Sephiroth 


The Sephiroth are 
also imagined as 
ten shells or cas- 
ings around the 
innermost core of 


En Soph, the form- 


less and ineffable 


centre of all being. 


The Cabbalists 
called meditation 
on this Nothing- 
in-Everything, ex- 
trapolating froma 
verse in the Song 
of Solomon (6, 11), 
“going down 

into the garden of 
nuts”. Shake- 
speare refers to 
this when he has 
Hamlet say, “O 
God! | could be 
bounded ina nut- 
shell, and count 
myself aking of 
infinite space”. 
And Joyce in 
Finnegans Wake: 
“Mark Time’s 
Finist Joke. 
Putting Allspace in 
a Notshall”. 


Sephiroth scroll, 


Poland, 
79th century 


264 


Opus Macnum: Sephiroth 


bo Sem err TF pee 


mire sea cere ae hn fin oot tn ory Ip 


rash re 73 Pawhg rene 


Feron hg be Sein peer mace 3 im 


He re apn ore eaten s Hen 
TEN Mae ty Ee een 


a7 Pern Coe aren ren che i 
fen Wee ea pment 


Opus Macnum: Sephiroth 


Sephiroth 


The Sephiroth 
form a holistic sys- 
tem in which the 
whole propagates 
and reflects itself 
infinitely into its 
tiniest particles. 


In the Kabbala de- 
nudata of the 
Christian theolo- 
gian and poet 
Christian Knorr 
von Rosenroth 
(1636-1689) pub- 
lished in Sulzbach, 
Germany, in 1677, a 
broader, non- 
Jewish public had 
its first access toa 
collecton of uncor- 
rupted Cabalistic 
texts. It contains, 
amongst other 
things, a partial 
Latin translation 
of the Zohar anda 
text by Luria. 
Rosenroth was in 
close contact with 
the English 
acolytes of Bohme - 
and the Amster- 
dam circle around 
Gichtel. 


C. Knorr von Rosen- 
roth, Kabbala de- 
nudata, Sulzbach, 
1684 


265 


Sephiroth 


The honeycomb- 
like links depicted 
here represent 
new formations 
and restructurings 
of the tree after 
the fracture of the 
lower Sephiroth. 
Luria called the 
configurations 
“Parzufim”, faces 
of the deity. 


At the very top 
(No. 52), “the 
forbearing one” 
(Kether), thrones 
above ” Father” 
(Chochma, 55-65) 
and “Mother” 
(Bina, 66-77). The 
lower Sephiroth 
are assembled into 
the form of the 
“impatient one”. 
138-149 is his mys- 
tical bride Rachel, 
the renewed 
Sephira Malchut. 


C. Knorr von Rosen- 
roth, Kabbala 
denudata, 
Sulzbach, 1684 


266 


s3 


AY, 
a 


wa 
ae, 


fg 


yj 


ie 


Zi 
WY, 


Opus Macnum: Sephiroth 


eZ, 
seg pew NIP TAT 
“paws TW za a 7 hoa PNow “ny 


x wo X72 8 
minh ps Swng, 
yun yg dy sand 
“pe indaa nsw) 4, 
bra wary prynn xb 

gon soy wn ON YN 7d 
hoist many aw? § 
4on 41! inmany wad? 1 
wend torr mbugaa pwn v 
py xen ayps*b nay prin > 
ywan phate oon 8 
agyni hyavi Ysa) 


mpiy" trip aa ay 


aN 


Opus Macnum: Sephiroth 


Sephiroth 


The ten Sephiroth 
not only form the 
cosmic body of the 
first man, Adam 
Cadmon, with the 
three upper brain- 
chambers and the 
seven limbs, but, 
according to the 
teaching of Isaac 
Luria, the indi- 
vidual Sephiroth 
are also reflections 
of his mystical 
face, each stress- 
ing a particular 
aspect. The upper- 
most Sephira, 
Kether, is called 
“the forbearing 
one” or “sainted 
old age” or “star 
of the universe”. 
On him depends 
the life of all 
things, according 
to the Zohar, and 
from the curve of 
his skull, dew 
flows incessantly 
down onto the 
lower heaven: the 
nectar of the 
Rosicrucians, the 
philosophers’ 
mercury. 


C. Knorr von 
Rosenroth, Kabbala 
denudata, 
Sulzbach, 1684 


267 


Sephiroth 


According to the 
law of the 
Pythagorean 
Tetractys, the four 
seeds of the ar- 
cane name of God 
unfold on ten 
levels. “The world 
was created in ten 
words” (Zohar). In 
combination with 
the twenty-two 
letters, the chan- 
nels through 
which the divine 
power circulates, 
the diagram of the 
Sephiroth encom- 
passes all possibil- 
ities and all com- 
binations of the 
world of elements. 


Manuscript, 
Salonica 


268 


at 4 


DIN PEAS 
SgP OT 


9) ONS3-7DIN 
93031734 COTS 


apoiS 19) NENT 15 
ib saea sor ab03 
mn 137s apd}: 


ait 


‘Seoiy note: 


IDF PA DIET E' 


Se) mans TOSS MIM) % OUIIN 
ASAD Oy 


dims pHis41 x 
4, Mi soit] 


[onbe WH WS psy ps} 


Opus Macnum: Sephiroth 


ay 


ah } 
aw, 


OMNIA SE ABVNO. 


MINERALE? 


SIMPLEX. . 


Opus Macnum: Ab uno 


Ab uno 


“The four ele- 
ments yield up (...) 
asperm orsemen 
(Azoth: quintes- 
sence), which is 
cast into the 
centre of the 
earth, where it is 
transformed (...)”. 


The “Tree of Pan- 
sophia” was the 
name that the 
Rosicrucian Daniel 
Mégling from 
Constance (alias 
Theophilius 
Schweighart) gave 
to his diagram, in 
which the har- 
monic connection 
of microcosm and 
macrocosm is to 
be contemplated: 
Omnia ab uno 
(Everything from 
the One), Omnia ad 
unum (Everything 
to the One): 
"Seriously con- 
template nature, 
and then the ele- 
ments (...) therein 
you will finally 
rediscover your- 
self, from which 
you then ascend to 
God Almighty”. 


Theophilius 
Schweighart, 
Speculum 
sophicum Rhodo- 
stauroticum, 1604 


269 


Ab uno 


“1 "The circle and 
the point: the 
circle is the symbol 
of eternity. The 
point is the symbol 
of the concentra- 
tion of time in the 
moment. Sun = 
gold = connection 
between circle 
(eternity) and 
point (concentra- 
tion), is time in 
eternity, is the 
symbol of the 
unity of macro- 
and microcosm.” 
(From the Tabula 
Chaeremonis, 18th 
century) 


Philotheus, 
Symbola Christiana, 
Frankfurt, 1677 


“The circumcircle 
is inthe point, in 
the seed lies the 
fruit, Godin the 
world; the intelli- 
qent one will 
seek him within 
it.” (Daniel von 
Crepko, writing 
under the name of 
Angelus Silesius, 
16051660) 


Lin schén niitzlich 
Buchlein und 
Underweisung der 
Kunst des Messens, 
Nuremberg, 16th 
century 


270 


Opus Macnum: Ab uno 


4 


Heinrich Khunrath’s “Whole circle-round 
(...) stage of eternal wisdom” is filled with 
the spiritual salt of wisdom, the “Tartarus 
Mundi” or “central salt-point of the great 
building of the whole world” into which all 
the spatial lines of Hans Vredeman de 
Vries’ perspectival construction vanish. 


“Awake in sleep” stands above the en- 
trance, for “We are the stuff that dreams 
are made on” (Shakespeare, The Tempest). 
We can awake from this state through 


Opus Macnum: Ab uno 


constant prayer in the oratorium (left), and 
through unstinting work in the laborat- 
orium (right), which rests on the two 
pillars of experience and reason. The oven 
in the foreground admonishes us to 
patience (“Hasten slowly’), and the gifts on 
the table remind us that sacred music and 
harmony are supposed to accompany and 
define the Work. 


Heinrich Khunrath, Amphitheatrum 
sapientiae aeternae, 1602 


271 


ASSN AE 


Ab uno 


i bets Pa 

PORTA AMPHITHEATRE 8: et en fe, 
frm myfticom, prologeticar my eo 

(ihe DET patess tar immediate, mere me perch qos 

se peri cordfeanier copia im a raesiis CHRISTIAND-KABALICE, DIVINO 

plan 

qrdie=d 


I Vusrwig) creati, RILOSOPHIA lyncerd vere philalophict exarrexd Opera DOMINI DEV AG, 


PUUNRATH LIPS. Theolophie arsatore fideli. & ue! HCINAE, vtriisq; DOCTO RE. 1. NNO 0s FUSE CHRISTO mato. M. 


us gradi orem. vere Philolo 

is; foling bine. DICINITYS affiatis.  fecindint LEGES oracilarcs ieptem, 
MA GICE, mer mou PHTSIOO-CHIMICE radendi, couteni, 
1 PHILO Bere tere SIC (eliam@po 08 


Wheat oy i quenam fe Saprentia, Bonitac & Potent © EA TORES: “wt Sephiftice non morsanticr fod Theolophice vicwnd, 
Extrittore HENRICO 


vi ills taborit asices ios, dign cle 


ra SCAM 


joniies D OCTRINAE ‘Bineegal fidebarn , 


Like bees attracted by the scent of the 
rose, the lovers of Theo-Sophia stream by 
from all directions to climb the seven 
steps of the “mystic ladder,” through “the 
gate of eternal wisdom”. This gate, narrow 
{angustus) but sublime (augustus) is the 
sephira chochma, the Cabalistic source. It is 
“the force of light” and “the eternal cen- 
tre of life”, which, according to Béhme, is 


272 Opus Macnum: Ab uno 


open everywhere in the darkness of this 
world as “a little seed”. The passage con- 
tains seven pieces of advice on dealing 
with the celestial powers, and consists of 
the combs of light and darkness. 

(cf. p. 233) 


Heinrich Khunrath, Amphitheatrum 
sapientiae aeternae, 1602 


Nord Me Sopa araca 
ees seat 


i 


cos Fi 


us a Adtir Be peripee ELOUDY eri he 


ee ere cies 


gop 


Peiedlgtre ores 


Twenty-one paths lead to the alchemistic 
fortress but only on one, the enthusiastic 
path of the fear of God and of prayer, can 
it be entered. This path alone brings the 


knowledge of the correct source material. 


The other paths represent false concepts 
of godless “argchymists”. The seven cor- 
ner-points of the fortress are the seven 
phases which lead to the central rock of 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 


i meat 


Hs 
ake, aha 
NATYRAEAGOS OF SAPIEN TUM MERCY RIALE, A peasy ee ert seein rt rn 


(tae oo 


Fortress 


a) | MAGA 


ar sean one Late 
3 ete ae 


Vetrertah 


rege eee a y ste ae a 
Sila epee ih i 
pean rs arts en cain i tele ie ie ri Pie 


ernion Nativrn , erter: Natice: ata 
me haseel ee ie Y 
ie cra rio econ cre ae 
agen, i 


const dens SIETRATEARANDI EUNGNMENTYSA TYE permit WER 
anya lelbraten Naat: senorita een 


the lapis. Here is the throne of “our Mer- 
cury”, the dragon, “who marries himself 
and impregnates himself, who gives birth 
on one day and with his poison kills all 
living creatures”. (Rosarium philosophorum, 
Ed. J. Telle, Weinheim, 1992) 


Heinrich Khunrath, Amphitheatrum 
sapientiae aeternae, 1602 


273 


Fortress 


Inscription above the emblem: “God is the 
fortress of all who believe in him” 


Inscription beneath the emblem: “We 
trust in God when the flood begins” 


M.J. Ebermeier, Sinnbilder von der 
Hoffnung, Ttibingen, 1653 


On the art of warfare and the planning of 
fortifications. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. II, 
Oppenheim, 1679 


274 Opus Macnum: Fortress 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 


Fortress 


On the lower 
levels of the five 
elements, at the 
centre of the 
world on Mount 
Meru, sits the 
Mandala Palace. 
This precious 
palace is divided, 
analogous to man 
as the divine mea- 
sure of all things, 
into the three 
levels of body, lan- 
guage and spirit, 
to which, in this 
Mandala of the 
Time-Wheel, pre- 
cisely 722 Tibetan 
deities are as- 
signed. 


Kalachakra Man- 


dala, gouache, 
Tibet, 18th century 


275 


Fortress 


276 


The illustration in Athanasius Kircher’s 
Arithmologia (Rome, 1665) is a copy of the 
map of Jerusalem by Carolus Bovillus 
(Opera, Paris, 1510). The emphasis on the 
number twelve in the description of the 
Celestial City in the book of Revelation 
has often led to comparisons with the 
Zodiac. 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 


ee ___ Regéntiatio + 
__ Legis coblummatio «77 


*NSLaas 


fi eutoj one 
OidL 


fanccenecsrners 


SUMOUL, 
shQore], 


“eq Qy 
cL 


Asae ney. 
se 


For the famous 15th-century alchemist 
George Ripley, Jerusalem was an image of 
the Opus Magnum, whose twelve gates 
must be passed through analogous to the 
twelve phases of the work. 


A. Kircher, Arithmologia, Rome, 1665 


on 
wal 
=) 
co 
=| 


: it 


Co ee! 


a 


ftititit 
ee ae 


ro 
ei 


iit 


& a FAS 
2a Sea 


i 


As in Blake’s poems, in the writings of his 
contemporary, Richard Brothers, demo- 
«ratie convictions mingle with Biblical 
(yadition and the author's own visionary 
experience. He identified the fallen 
Jerusalem with the London of his own time 
and prophesied its destruction, if the war 
of the monarchist alliance against repub- 
jican France was successful. The new 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 


Jerusalem would not originate in Heaven, 
but would arise in contemporary Palestine. 
Brothers based his detailed map of the 
city on the descriptions of the prophet 
Ezekiel. 


Engraving by Wilson Lowry, in: 
R. Brothers, A Description of Jerusalem, 
1801 


Fortress 


277 


Fortress 


“The Celestial Jerusalem is an eternally 
clarified, subtle, penetrating, fixed corpse 
that can penetrate and perfect all other 


“The new Jerusalem will forever remain a 


278 


In his treatise ‘circulus quadratus’ (1616), 
Michael Maier compared the Celestial 
Jerusalem with the lapis as a golden 
fortress, a circle divided into the Pairs of 
opposites of the Aristotelian elements 
and qualities. These were often, and in the 
most diverse ways, linked to the four 


(Valentin Weigel, Azoth & Ignis, Amster- 


dam edition, 1787) 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 


red-golden transparent antimony glass, 
like stone: this is the new heaven and the 


new earth, in which we will all live to- 
bodies.” (Nodus sophicus enodatus, Frank- gether.” 


furt, 1639) 


points of the compass. The lapis, which 
connects them all, thus also symbolizes 
the ‘omphalos’, the navel of the world. 


Michael Maier, De circulo physico Quadrato, 
Oppenheim, 1616 


TERUSAL; 


BABEL 


Diagram by 
Bohme’s pupil 
Abraham von 
Franckenberg 
(1593-1652): 


In the fire of the 
Last Judgment (1) 
the night divides 
the night of Babel 
from the light of 
Jerusalem. 


Abraham von 
Franckenberg, 
Raphael oder 
Arzt-Engel, 1639 


\) Welling’s interpretation of “Revela- 
tions", after the Day of Judgment Christ 
will “return this whole solar system to its 
original form, as it was before the Fall of 
Lucifer”. He will bring forth a new world 

vith the New Jerusalem “in the counter- 
image of the archetypal City of God”. It 

sas created in the circle of the globe after 
(ie measure of man as made in the image 
of God. 


Orus Macnum: Fortress 


“Look upon Fig. 10 not with fleshly but 
with spiritual, emotional eyes.” Along the 
edges of the cubic surface are the names 
of the twelve tribes of Israel. It is made 

of miraculously delicate, gold-glass, and is 
radiated by the pure light of God. 


Georg von Welling, Opus mago-cabalis- 
ticum, Frankfurt, and Leipzig, 1760 


Fortress 


279 


Fortress 


280 


A shipwrecked man in search of the ‘Land 
of Peace’ lands on the island of Caphar 
Salama, on which there rises the ideal city 
of Christianopolis, which is laid out in 

the shape of a star around the innermost 
temple, on the model of Campanella’s 
“Civitas solis’ (1612). Life and education 
here are aimed, according to Rosicrucian 
ideals, at the harmonic connection of 
Christian tradition and universal know- 
ledge. In school the Cabala is taught as the 
highest form of geometry, theosophy as 
the highest form of the humanities, as well 
as Pythagorean harmonic theory and as- 
trology. The Swabian theologian Valentin 


Andreae (1586-1654) is also thought to be 
co-author of the pamphlets of the Rosicru- 
cian Brotherhood published a few years 
earlier, although he was quick to distance 
himself from these, probably for fear of 
coming under suspicion of heresy. After 
the Thirty Years’ War, he put into effect 
the ideals of the Brotherhood: active 
brotherly love and the reform of church, 
state and society, as reorganizer of the 
Wiirttemberg educational system and the 
regional Lutheran church. 


J. Valentin Andreae, Rei publicae Christia- 
nopolitanae descriptio, Strasbourg, 1619 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 


With his description of the floating island 
o{ Laputa, driven by a group of lunatic sci- 
ontists with a time-wheel magnetism, 
Jonathan Swift, in his 1726 novel Gulliver’s 
Travels parodied the Royal Society. This 
oldest British academy for the sponsorship 
of science was founded in 1660 on the 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 


Rosicrucian idea of an “invisible college” 
encouraging the highest educational 
ideals. 


Jonathan Swift, Gulliver’s Travels, Leipzig 
edition, c. 1910 


Fortress 


281 


Fortress 
Fortress 


The temple is said 
to have been 
“built upon the 
words of the Bible 
from hewn stone 
in such a way that 
no disturbing 
sound, no tool of 
iron could be 
heard. The stones 
(the developed 
personalities) are 
supposed to inter- 
sect in such a way 
that they hold 
without further 
connection (...). 
Solomon’s temple 
is the model which 
allows all other 
symbols to evolve 
from it, to reas- 
semble themina 
unit. For this 
reason the Free- 
mason calls his 
activity construc- 
tion-work. The 


final goal is the (lefore the three journeymencandealhim | denbeside the temple plans in the rubble 
temple of human- the final death-blow, the temple architect of the subterranean vault raised on nine 
ibs UUNEHaUR GE jnanages to throw the golden triangle with arches, which rise so high that they are not 
the omnipotent (he watchword, which he always wore on immersed by the waters of the flood. 
architect of all his chest, into a deep shaft. A cubical stone is embedded inthe ninth 
the worlds (...)”. arch, as a symbol of the highest moral 
(Lennhoff and Pos- Ihe candidates of the ‘Royal Arch’, the power. It alone can provide access to the 
ner, Internationales inost important high-degree system of the subterranean holiness. 
Freimaurerlexikon, = Anglo-Saxon countries, are prepared in ; ; at Arched: 
Graz, 1965) Bal OE tages in search of this triangle with the High-degree illustration: ‘Le Royalle Arches, 

sed ui ano ANTE wit Ce PSG oe ale sel aaa bl f God. It is hid ©.1775 

J L. oa at Ei is B i 
dc Ts CANNED OR STE it SRI PUNO TURE USER rg : TRUE OH unpronounceable name of God. 
= 1) - _ SERIO TTA MRC IM SUES SORE ST Tbecel WFAGILE RSIS, 5 4 s = ~ 

18th-century work: a Meee Se ee eae 


carpet, engraving 


283 


282 Opus Macnum: Fortress Opus Macnum: Fortress 


Fortress 


“By the fruits shall 
ye know the 
roots.” 


“In the leaves of 
gardens of this 
kind, a golden 
crown grows for 
those that merit it 
(...). Because the 
door is closed, 
no-one can enter 
the house unless 
he has the key, 
while God guides 
the star.” 


Hermetischer 
Philosophus oder 
Hauptschltissel, 
Vienna, 1709 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 


The Arabic alchemist Umail at-Tamimi 

(c. 900-960), known as Senior Zadith, 
entering the “Treasure-house of Wisdom’, 
the lapis. The four gates of the four ele- 
ments must all simultaneously “be opened 
with four keys until the whole house is 
filled with light”. 


Aurora consurgens, late 14th century 


Ihe gate is bolted three times according 

to the three sections of the Work. The 
points on the arch indicate that three 
different fires must rule within. They are 
porsonified in the lower Muses, sitting at 
(he top right on Parnassus: “In vain you 
wry to walk upon this high mountain, 
when you can barely stand on one leg ona 
lovel path”. To get the elixirs of the white 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 


Fortress 


“Whosoever 
wishes to enter 
the Philosophical 
Rose-Garden with- 
out the key is like 
a man who wishes 
to walk without 
feet.” 


and red roses, what is required above all is 
the right source material. This rose wears 
agreen dress, says Maier. The wise man 
plucks it without being pricked, while 
thieves “have nothing but pain from it”. 


Michael Maier, Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


285 


Fortress 


Access to the 
“mountain of the 
philosophers” is 
blocked by a wall 
of false, sophisti- 
cal doctrines. The 
old man at the 
entrance is the 
saturnine Anti- 
mon, here called 
“the father of 
metals”. The al- 
chemists identi- 
fied this “old pro- 
tector” with the 
Bethlehem land- 
lord Boas, David's 
great-grandfather. 
Above him, the 
Arab alchemist Se- 
nior Zadith plants 
the sun and moon 
tree, from which 
the lapis emerges. 
In the ‘Aurora 
consurgens’ there 
is also a passage 
leading back to 
Senior Zadith, in 
which the lapis is 
compared with a 
house built ona 
strong rock. Who- 
ever opens it will 
find within the 
source of eternal 
youth. 


Geheime Figuren 


dor Rosenkreuzer, 
Altona, 1785 


286 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 


{he Fama Fraternitatis is the first pamphlet 


of an invisible brotherhood of the Rosy 
(oss published in 1614 by the circle of 


{Ubingen students around Valentin An- 
\voae. Their “youthful pranks and fool- 
ry", as Andreae later called them, had un- 

pected consequences. Shady charlatans 
erywhere declared their desire to join 

(is wonderful college. Scholars like René 
/escartes and Robert Fludd tried to make 

ytact, but in vain. “Our building (...) 


Orus Macnum: Fortress 


Fortress 


shall remain inaccessible to the godless 
world,” as the Fama has it. 


Schweighart advises the searcher to watch 
patiently like Noah’s doves, to hope 
quietly in God and to pray tirelessly. Then 
a brother will announce himself, for they 


are able to read thoughts. 


T. Schweighart, Speculum sophicum 
Rhodo-stauroticum, 1604 


287 


Animal riddles 


Even the ancient Egyptians “commonly dealt with the Chymical 
Mysteries through the figures of the animals: thus the red Lion 
means: the sun, gold; the toad, the raven: putrefaction; the dove, 
the eagle, the snake, the green lion: the Luna philosophorum, their 
Mercury; with the wolf antimony, with the dragon saltpetre, with 
the snake arsenic and the like are meant. In the understanding of the 
meanings of the animals, the specific properties of the animals in 
question should be considered. Poisonous and volatile things indicate 
material; fixed, earthly things show form. In this way the following 
riddles can thus be understood; the red lion fights with the grey 
wolf, and having defeated him, he will become a magnificent victori- 
ous prince. 

Afterwards, enclose him in a transparent prison, with ten or 
twelve virgin eagles, and entrust the key of the prison to Vulcan; 
thus the eagles will begin to dispute, and to vanquish the lion, and to 
rip it to shreds which, when it rots, the eagles will try to fly away, 
and escape the stink, and ask Vulcan to open up, and examine all the 
crannies of the prison; but when Vulcan refuses, and all ends of the 
prison are entirely closed, then by the stink from the lion’s carrion 
the eagles too will be corrupted, infected and rotted. Hence, a terri- 
ble putrefaction. But while the one’s corruption is the other’s cre- 
ation, thus many things arise from this twofold carrion: first there 
emerges a Raven, which, while it rots again, vanishes: from which a 
peacock emerges (...): when this perishes, there emerges a Dove, 
which, because the Raven could find no dry place, finds one such, but 
a new one because the previous Earth was corrupted by the Flood, 
but this is the virgin Chalk of the Philosophers. This Dove, not yet 
past all corruption, is slowly transformed into a Phoenix, which 
Vulcan burns, in the Prison itself. Hence, from its ashes there arises 
anew, incorruptible and immortal fruit, by which all sublunary things 
are refreshed. 

You will interpret the significant riddle of these animals in this 
way: purify the gold with Spiessglas (antimony), place it ina glass 
with 10 or 12 parts of the Mercurii Philosophorum, or of the Mercurial 
water of its metals: place the glass in a reasonable heat: thus the 
form of the gold will be defeated by the Mercurial matter, and rot: 
From which a blackness and all manner of colours will be seen. When, 
finally, the putrefaction is over, the Matter will first pass through a 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


stage of taking or a greyish colour, and will then tend towards a 
whiteness; if one puts a great heat to it, it will be tinged witha 
lemon-colour, and finally with a red colour, and thus pass from fluid 
to its fixity.” Johann J. Becher, Oedipus chimicus, 1664) 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


Animal riddles 


M. Maier, 
Viatorium, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


289 


Animal riddles 


“The philosophers 
generally say that 
two fish should be 
in our sea.” The 
sea is the body, 
the two fish spirit 
and soul. “Decoct 
these three to- 
gether, to produce 
the greatest sea.” 


Lambsprinck, 

De Lapide philo- 
sophico, Frankfurt, 
1625 


“A deer anda uni- 
corn are hidden in 
the forest.” The 
forest is the body, 
the unicorn the 
spirit (Sulphur, 
male), the deer is 
the soul (Mercury, 
female). “Blessed 
can we call the 
man who artfully 
can capture and 
tame them” 


Lambsprinck, 

De Lapide philo- 
sophico, Frankfurt, 
1625 


290 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles Opus Magnum: Animal riddles 


Animal riddles 


“A beautiful forest 
in India is found, 
wherein two 
birds together are 
bound. One is 
snow-white (Mer- 
cury), the other 
red (Sulphur). 
They bite each 
other until both 
are dead.” After 
they have entirely 
devoured one an- 
other, they turn 
first into a dove 
(whitening), then 
into a phoenix 
(reddening). 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


The two opposite 
natures of the 
work are brought 
together by 
lengthy coction. 
“Have but pa- 
tience, your labour 
will not be in vain: 
The lovely tree 
will in time yield 
fruits.” 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


291 


Animal riddles 


292 


Sah 


On the top of the mountain where the 
prima materia is found ,the ‘philosophers’ 
vulture’ (their Mercury) sits screaming in- 
cessantly: “| am the Black of the White 
and the Red of the White and the Yellow 
of the Red; | am the herald of the Truth 
and no liar”. 


Maier took this speech from the ‘Rosarium 


philosophorum’, a 14th-century anthology 
of alchemistic theories. The passage con- 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


Se 


tinues: “And know this, that the summit of 
art is the raven, who flies without wings 

in the blackness of night and the holiness 
of the day” (Rosarium philosophorum, 

Ed. J. Telle, Weinheim, 1992). This refers 
to the phase of nigredo, in which the solid 
components of the matter succumb to 
putrefaction. 


Michael Maier, Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


Animal riddles 


AA The ascent 
BB The descent 
C Mercury 


DD The solid 
body is dissolved 


E The salt be- 
comes water 


FS The Salt Body 
is made volatile / 
and ascends 


Hieronymus Reuss- 
ner, Pandora 

(die edelste Gabe 
Gottes), Basle, 
1582 


293 


Animal riddles 


“IT came to an un- 
derground house 
(...) and on its 
roof | saw pictures 
of nine eagles”, 
writes the Arabic 
alchemist Senior 
Zadith (c. goo- 
960), who is often 
quoted in the 
Aurora consurgens. 
The eagles refer to 
the nine processes 
of sublimation. 
The bow and ar- 
row represent the 
subsequent 
phases of fixation. 


The depiction is 
closely linked to 
Arab legends of 
the discovery of 
the Emerald 
Tablets of Hermes 
Trismegistus, 
which the old man 
is holding on his 
lap. On them, the 
hermetic axioms 
are represented 
hieroglyphically. 


Aurora consurgens, 
early 16th century 


294 


{ tine ns QB RARE anit astenc: ies 
ane isnt pus Torteane/ fies Pne 
944 Lai relia ue 

a eee fale 


fa Hie costuppental 


Bexre ones asain, sae 


eae 
ine if suf Binnlivacte 
WEED ei tase Ceri 
safta sila Greer “Abas Ste 
Sie (se 1 pilose Bice saan tees <his8 fis 
mi oe ent Rita in tontoBasy yy 
ed nat 7 te peace p 


re ia Hane ee Fy 


Pics Reits wth ae oy SHS 
ed mas a ison 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


Animal riddles 


(he fire gives form and makes everything 


perfect, as it is written: He blew into his 


face the breath of life (...) the fire makes 
ubtle all earthly things that serve mat- 


ter,” 


No thing that is heavy can be made light 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


without help of the light thing. And the 
light things cannot be pressed down with- 
out the presence of the heavy thing. 

The ‘Turba’ speaks thus: Make the body 
spiritual and what is fixed make volatile.” 


Aurora consurgens, early 16th century 


295 


Animal riddles 


“Two birds in the 
wood are named 
and only one is un- 
derstood”, ac- 
cording to Lamb- 
sprinck. The two 
young of the bird 
Hermeti signify 
the volatile and 
solid components 
of quicksilver, 
which are united 
by repeated 
sublimations. 


Lambsprinck, 

De Lapide philo- 
sophico, Frankfurt, 
1625 


An eagle has two 
young. One is 
fledged, but the 
other, which is 
featherless, pre- 
vents it from 
flying. “Add the 
head of one to the 
other, and you will 
have it”, advises 
Maier. That is: so- 
lidify the volatile 
and volatilize the 
solid. 


M. Maier, 


Atalanta fugiens, 
1678 


296 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


Animal riddles 


Spirit and soul 
should be added 
to the body and 
taken away (solve 
et coagula). “It may 
be a great wonder 
that two lions turn 
into one.” 


Lambsprinck, 

De Lapide philo- 
sophico, Frankfurt, 
1625 


“Add to the liona 
winged lion, so 
that both may live 
in the air. But it 
stops firmly and 
stands on the 
earth. This picture 
of nature shows 
you the way 
through which it 
rules.” Maier ad- 
vises sublimating 
the two natures 
(Sulphur and Mer- 
cury) until they are 
inseparable. 


M. Maier, 


Atalanta fugiens, 
1618 


297 


Animal riddles 


Apart from the 
snow-white steam 
that settles as 
“burning water” or 
“unnatural fire”, 
and belongs to the 
“sulphurous, 
stinking waters”, 
the “green lion” is 
among the “Three 
things that are 
sufficient for mas- 
tery”. Here it is 
described asa 
saliva-like extract 
of raw Duenech 
(antimony). 


M. Maier, 
Atalanta fugiens, 
1618 


The ‘blood of the 
green lion’, which 
also goes under 
the code name of 
the ‘philosophers’ 
vitriol’, is the uni- 
versal solvent that 
swallows the 
seven metals and 
gold. Basil Valen- 
tine said that the 
solid blood of the 
red lion (the lapis, 
the sun) comes 
from the volatile 
blood of the green 
lion. 


D, Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


298 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


Animal riddles 


“lam he who was 
the green and 
golden lion with- 
out cares, within 
me lie all the 
mysteries of the 
philosophers.” 


“The green lion 
that swallows Sol” 
is, according to 
the Rosarium, “our 
Mercury. It alone 
works deep into 
each body and lifts 
him up. So if it is 
mixed with a 
body, it enlivens 
and relieves it and 
transforms it from 
one consistency 
into another.” 
(Rosarium philoso- 
phorum, Ed. J. 
Telle, Weinheim, 
1992) 


Heinrich Khunrath 
called it “the 
natural quickly 
comprehensible, 
Catholic Every- 
thing and Every- 
thing in Nature, 
Natural and 
Naturally-artificial 
Conquering”. 
(Vom hylealischen 
Chaos, Frankfurt 
edition, 1708) 


Rosarium 


philosophorum, 
16th century 


299 


Animal riddles 


“This is the 
philosophers’ pot, 
with which they 
deal so secretly in 
their books and 
parables, so that 
nobody can under- 
stand them (...) 

| advise all those 
who wish to fry, 
poach or boil the 
philosophers’ egg, 
to be careful that 
the shell does not 
break, for then (...) 
all the poison 
would come out, 
and would kill 
everyone nearby 
(...), for within it 

is the most evil 
poisonin the 
whole world.” 


J. Isaac Hollandus, 
Hand der Phifoso- 
phen (1667), Vienna 
edition, 1746 


300 


Berberffer bas ~Sy, fo 


foil der Oiffe 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


eras’. 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


Animal riddles 


The ‘basilisk’ isa 
poisonous mixture 
of cock and toad. 
Its eye fixes and 
kills everything at 
once, like a strong 
solvent or the 
projection powder 
that transmutes 
the metals. If you 
hold up a mirror 
to it, it kills itself. 
“From its ashes, 
arise wonderful 
things.” 


Aurora consurgens, 
early 16th century 


“On the rock also 
combine the eagle 
(sal ammoniac) 
with dragon’s 
smoke (salt- 
petre).” The ‘Third 
Key’ of Basilius 
Valentius says it 
is amatter of 
“extracting the 
sulphur or soul 
from the King or 
gold”. This sulphur 
is the fox which 
has fixed the mer- 
curial hen and 
which is now, in 
turn, pursued and 
devoured by the 
cock. 


D. Stolcius v. 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


301 


Dew 


“The Greeks tes- 
tify that from gold 
there fell a fertile 
rain as the sun lay 
in the passion of 
love with Venus. 
And from Jupiter's 
brain as Pallas did 
arise, so gold 
must also appear 
like rain in your 
vessel.” 


302 


Vulcan, seeking to free Jupiter from his 
headaches with an axe, releases Pallas 
Athene, the goddess of wisdom, from his 
skull. This birth, Maier wrote, is celeb- 
rated annually on the island of Rhodes by 
the festival of the “golden rain”, in which 
golden coins are scattered. 


Johann Glauber (1604-1670) related how 
he demonstrated another classical, gold 
rain in an experiment: “I placed a pointed 
glass retort (...) on atable, poured King 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Akrisio’s beautiful daughter Danaé 
through the narrow opening the glass (...) 
Afterwards, following the advice and 
actions of Jupiter, | made a golden rain 
and let it fall through the tiles of the roof, 
which is to say the narrow hole of the 
retort, down on Danaé’s lap (...)”. 

(J.R. Glauber, Von den Dreyen anfangen der 
Metallen, 1666) 


M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Dew 


“Blessed of the 
Lord be his land, 
for the precious 
things of heaven, 
for the dew(...)”. 
(Deuteronomy 


33, 13) 


“This dew is the 
manna on which 
the souls of the 
just nourish them- 
selves. The chosen 
hunger for it and 
collect it with 

full hands in the 
fields of heaven.” 
(Zohar) 


“Our dew, our 
matter, is celestial, 
spermatic, dewish, 
electric, virginal, 
universal.” (From 
the writing of 
Count Marsciano, 
1744) 


De alchimia, 
Leyden, 1526 


303 


Dew 


304 


Hardly any published work of alchemical history was more talked 
about than the Mute Book (Mutus Liber) which, like a rebus, hides its 
messages in a sequence of 15 plates. The first edition was published 
in 1677 in La Rochelle, while the present version in colour comes from 
alate 18th-century French manuscript. The author has been identi- 
fied as one Jacobus Sulat, anagrammatically concealed behind the 
pseudonym Altus (Latin: high) in Plate 1, and in the expression “Ocu- 
latus abis” (as a sighted man you leave) in Plate 15. On many points 
the captions follow the detailed interpretations of Eugéne Canseliet 
(1899-1982), the pupil and editor of the works of the legendary 
alchemist Fulcanelli (Altus, Die Alchemie und ihr Stummes Buch, 
Amsterdam edition, 1991). His annotated edition of the Mutus liber, 
Canseliet writes, was written out of gratitude that he had suc- 
ceeded, solely with the help of this hieroglyphic picture-book, in 
isolating the extraordinarily volatile salt of the dew. 

The representation of the preparatory attainment of salt on the 
wet path occupies a great deal of space within the sequence of 
pictures, while the following central preparation of the lapis on the 
dry path, with the help of the secret salt fire, is only faintly hinted at. 
The dew contains a very fine saltpetre, which is capable of refining 
the other salt. Its glyph D forms the basic compositional structure of 
the first plate and that of sal ammoniac 9 the last. This is not ordi- 
nary salammoniac however, but a crystalline salt with the power of 
harmony. Canseliet calls it harmoniac. Together, saltpetre and har- 
moniac work, as in Kirchweger’s Aurea Catena Homeri, as the agens 
and patiens of the Work (cf. p. 238). In changing figurations they 
appear as the dual fundamental principles of the work in Mutus liber: 
as an alchemistic pair or as Taurus and Leo, Apollo and Diana. 

The author has placed one major barrier in the way of the com- 
prehension of the work by switching the correct sequence of the 
plates. We present the original sequence, putting Canseliet’s sug- 
gested amendments in brackets. 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


begs eecer” ugpingnier, 


Bester trite COTVenrk 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


f authore ate 
Alter 


Dew 


Plate 1 


Stimulated by the 
raw stone (prima 
materia), Jacob 
dreams his dream 
of the ladder to 
heaven, or of the 
exchange of spirit 
and matter. The 
ten stars signify 
the ten subli- 
mations in the 
Work. The three 
sequences of 
numbers, read 
backwards, refer 
to the various 
passages in the 
Bible dealing with 
the blessings of 
the celestial dew. 
The roses also 
refer to it (Dew: 
French ‘rosée’, 
Latin ‘ros’). 


305 


Dew 


Plate 2 
(before plate 8) 


In the phial, Nep- 
tune, in the middle 
phase of the work 
leads his disciples, 
Apollo and Diana, 
to their marriage. 
Chaotic night has 
withdrawn, and 
the light of the 
spiritual sun now 
illuminates the 
Work. 


306 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Plate 3 


Jupiter, the first 
gleam of light to 
penetrate the 
saturnine night is 
enthroned on the 
three rings sym- 
bolizing the rota- 
tions in the three 
sections of the 
work with their 
reversals of inside 
and outside. Be- 
neath him, his wife 
Juno, as repre- 
sentative of the 
brightly-coloured 
phase (peacock), 
beside him the 
birds of the 
sublimations. The 
scenes of fishing 
symbolize the 
interconnection of 
coagulation and 
sublimation of the 
two fundamental 
components, 
shown here as 
Aries and Taurus. 


307 


Dew 


Plate 4 


The alchemical 
couple as the 
lower correspond- 
ence to the sun 
and moon inthe 
harvesting of the 
dew, which must 
occur in the 
months of April 
(Aries) and May 
(Taurus), when the 
green world-spirit 
of which Khunrath 
often spoke is at 
its strongest. The 
hermetic dew is 
also called “the 
philosophers’ 
vitriol” or “green 
lion”. Its glyph & 
can be seen on the 
top of the church- 
tower on the right. 


308 


dt - 
tata thy 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Dew 


Plate 5 


After distillation, 
the woman takes 
four coagulated 
particles from the 
retort and gives 
them to the “Lunar 
Vulcan”. He sym- 
bolizes the “secret 
fire” formed from 
the two salts of 
the dew. This vul- 
canic fire will later 
revivify the dead 
child at his breast. 
At the bottom, the 
dew is entrusted 
to the digestive 
apparatus. 


309 


Dew 


Plate 6 


The result of the 
forty-day diges- 
tion and a second 
distillation is the 
appearance of a 
fixed sulphurous 
blossom called the 
“philosophers” 
gold”. The man 
gives this extract 
to Apollo, who ap- 
pears in martial ar- 
mour. Beside him 
the content of the 
flask previously 
entrusted to the 
secret vulcan fire 
is pouredintoa 
cooking vessel. 


310 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Dew 


Plate 7 


The result of the 
distillations is 
conjoined with the 
extract that has 
been concentrated 
by the secret, 

lunar fire. Then 
everything is 
heated in the 
water-bath and 
the salt of Univer- 
sal Harmony with 
the sign * re- 
moved from it. At 
the bottom, Anti- 
mony-Saturn de- 
vours the child or 
the “philosophers” 
sulphur”. After 
being purified, 

it is brought to 
whitening (Diana). 


311 


Dew 


Plate 8 


In the phial carried 
by the two angels, 
the philosophical 
Mercury appears. 
He is the product 
of the marriage 

of sun/Apollo and 
moon/Diana, 
brought together 
by Neptune in 
Plate 2. The ten 
birds of the subli- 
mation correspond 
to the serpents of 
the Caduceus. TWo 
of the birds bear 
branches with the 
signs of the two 
fundamental 

saline substances 
of the “secret 
fire”, tartar salt 
and sal ammoniac. 


312 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Ovus Macnum: Dew 


Dew 


Plate 9 
(after Plate 4) 


Poured into six 
plates arranged in 
the form of a fiery 
triangle, the dew 
is now exposed to 
the cosmic fluid, 
further to enrich 
its force (Greek 
“rosis’). The in- 
volvement of this 
energy, according 
to Canseliet, is 
precisely what 
distinguishes 
alchemy from pro- 
fane chemistry. 


313 


Dew 


Plate 10 


Here the “philo- 
sophical egg” or 
mercurial “vessel 
of nature” is pre- 
pared and sealed. 
But the bowl and 
its contents do 
not yet consist, as 
it would appear, of 
glass and fluid, 
but of the two 
salts, within which 
lies the sulphurous 
blossom or the 
“spiritual gold”. 

In Athanor the two 
principles conjoin 
into the definitive 
redness, the 
centre of the 
target. 


314 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Dew 


Plate 11 


In comparison to 
Plate 8, the con- 
tent of the phial 
has now become 
transparent, and 
transformed “into 
the deepest depth 
of a bottomless 
light”. The philo- 
sophical Mercury 
now appears ele- 
vated to purple 
redness, and the 
sign of the sul- 
phurous tartar salt 
has been given the 
glyph of sub- 
limation. At the 
bottom, the dark- 
ening curtains 
have vanished 
from the windows. 


315 


Dew 


Plate 12 


Filled with inner 
dynamism, the 
sulphur-bull bucks 
and the dew in the 
bowls vibrates, 
sated with the 
nitric heavenly 
spirit, pure salt- 
petre. It is eagerly 
collected by the 
philosophical 
Mercury, who 
needs it for the 
crystallization 

of his inner, 
sulphurous germ 
of “spiritual gold”. 


316 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Dew 


Plate 13 


The sulphurous 
blossom in Plate 10 
has turned into a 
small sun, which 
has the power to 
take the philo- 
sophical Mercury 
to its highest 
stage of consis- 
tency. (The target 
with the redden- 
ing at its centre 
has now grown.) 
The numbers in 
the two united 
principles indicate 
the phase of multi- 
plication, which 
advances towards 
infinity in powers 
of ten. 


317 


Dew 


Plate 14 


The three ovens 
signify the three 
different fires in 
the work: the in- 
ner spiritual fire, 
the secret, salt fire 
and the dark, 
material fire that 
stimulates the 
other two. This fi- 
nal phase is called 
“women’s work 
and child’s play”, 
being concerned 
with constant 
cooking. It must 
last for three days 
until the philo- 
sophical silver has 
been attained 
(left), and three 
more, through to 
the philosophical 
gold, the son of 
the sun (right). 
"Pray, read, read, 
read again and you 
will find,” the 
couple advise the 
man clinging 

to the heels of 
Mercury. 


Dew 


Plate 15 


The night of the 
first plate has 
made way, in this 
closing plate, for 
the rising red sky 
of morning. The 
pagan Hercules 
has completed the 
deeds of the 
Work, and remains 
as a physical 
residue on the 
floor, while, 
thanks to the dew 
(the roses), his in- 
corruptible spirit 
body rises into the 
air as the true cor- 
nerstone, uniting 
male and female. 
The surrounding 
branches (this is 
more easily seen in 
the first edition) 
form an X, the 
Greek Chi, the sign 
of Christ or the 
revealed light. 


Ope fore fram Hetege” 


Os = 
AE Ee PIAA? 


te) 


318 Opus Macnum: Dew Opus Macnum: Dew 319 


Dew 


Here, the French 
alchemist 

Armand Barbault 
(1906-1974) is 
shown wringing 
out the dew-dren- 
ched canvases. 
Barbault added 
these liquids, 
whose quality de- 
pends strongly on 
the species of 
plant from which 
they are collected, 
toaplant extract, 
the “blood of the 
green lion”, his 
prima materia. 

As such, he took 
apiece of “virgin 
earth”, which had 
to be untouched 
by chemical fertili- 
zers, and com- 
posted it for three 
years, along with 
the additives until 
it was completely 
black. 


Armand Barbault, 


Lor du milligme 
matin, Paris, 1979 


320 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Opus Macnum: Women’s work & child’s play 


Women’s work 
& child’s play 


The “whitening” 
of the black mat- 
ter after the phase 
of nigredo, shown 
as “women’s 
work”. 


Joyce was familiar 
with the illustra- 
tions of the 
Splendor solis, and 
variously worked 
motifs from them 
into his work: 
“Wring out the 
clothes! Wring in 
the dew! (After 
Tennyson: “Ring 
out the old, ring in 
the new”) (...) 
Spread! it’s churn- 
ing (churn: centri- 
fuge) chill (depres- 
sion, nigredo) Der 
went ist rising. I'll 
lay a few stones on 
the hostel sheets. 
Aman and his 
bride embraced 
between them.” 
(The rebis of Sol 
and Luna). 

(J. Joyce, Finne- 
gans Wake, p. 213) 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 

16th century 


321 


Women’s work 
& child’s play 


“Look at a woman and learn how she 
washes her linen, pours warm water 
thereon and mixes with ashes. Copy her, 
and everything will go well, for the body, 
so black, will be washed clean by the 
water.” This water is the “philosophical 
fire” that penetrates the centre of the 
raw matter and and takes from it all its 
impurities. 


M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


“Just as a woman 
softens, simmers 
and cooks fish in 
their own water 
(...) the artist also 
treats his subject 
in his own water, 
which is stronger 
than the strongest 
vinegar. He 
destroys it, makes 
it soft, dissolves 
it and coagulates 
it, and allin the 
well-sealed glass 
of Hermes.” 


M. Maier, 
Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


Women’s work 
& child’s play 


“Women’s work’ 
and ‘child’s play’, 
generally men- 
tioned inasingle 
breath, refer to 
an advanced phase 
of the Opus, in 
which, apart from 
the maintenance 
of a constant fire 
for coction, there 
is nothing to do 
but pass the time. 
According to Sa- 
lomon Trismosin, 
however, this 
picture of playing 
childrenis alsoa 
parable of the 
fixation of the 
quicksilver by the 
sulphur, because 
as in “child’s play’, 
what was previ- 
ously above 
(Mercury) is now 
below. 


The group in the 
foreground is 
reminiscent of the 
“Hiilsenbeck 
Children” by Ph.O. 
Runge (1805) 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 

76th century 


- ta . 7 af 2 
322 Opus Macnum: Women’s work & child‘s play Opus Macnum: Women’s work & child’s play 323 


Vegetable 
chemistry 


“Sow the gold in 
the white, foliate 
earth which is the 
third earth that 
serves the gold, it 
tinges the elixir 
and the elixir 
tinges itin turn.” 


‘Tingeing’ means 
colouring, and is 
used in the sense 
of a penetrating 
transfer of power. 
Here the last two 
phases of the 
‘multiplicatio’ and 
the ‘projectio’ are 
addressed. 


Aurora consurgens, 
early 76th century 


324 


Opus Macnum: Vegetable chemistry 


“Nature brings to light nothing that is per- 
fect, but man must perfect it. This perfec- 
tion is called alchimia. An alchemist is the 
baker when he bakes bread, the vinicultur- 
ist when he makes wine, the weaver when 
he makes cloth.” (Paracelsus, Paragranum, 


1530) 
Sourdough is a favourite image of the 


ferment used in the process to raise the 
matter. 


Aurora consurgens, fate 14th century 


Even before Paracelsus (1493-1541), who 
has gone down in history as the founder of 
pharmaceutical iatrochemistry (Greek 
‘iatros’, doctor), healing was a major aim 
of alchemy. As the alchemical process is 


geared towards organic growth, Newton 
described alchemy, in contrast to mechan- 
ical laboratory chemistry, as ‘vegetable 
chemistry’. 


Here the “most learned philosopher” is 
handing “Mother Alchemy” a bunch of 
herbs to heal her sick body. While her 
golden head and her silver breast (painted 
over by.a censor, in this instance), are al- 
ready complete, her lower body is still in 


Opus Macnum: Vegetable chemistry 


an impure, poisonous state. Her thighs are 
swollen by dropsy, and her calves and feet 
afflicted with gout. 


Aurora consurgens, early 16th century 


Vegetable 
chemistry 


325 


Vegetable 


Vegetable 
chemistry 


chemistry 


Pseudo-Eleazar, an 
18th-century al- 


rs ‘ 

3 is uti gis chemist hiding be- 
| 5, Lbowmaales Sei aw) Gols af as: hind the name of 
| coun Sanat cin V tind Observiere San Flamel’s legendary 

: teacher, consider- 
ed this fifth page 
of the codex to be 
of special import- 
ance. “Should you 
lose all writings, 
just copy these 
figures or paint 
them for your 
children, and they 
will easily under- 
stand them.” The 
old oak tree is 
“our black and 
heavy lump, our 
Albaon”, a code- 
name for anti- 
mony. From it 
grow the red roses 
as “the blood of 
the Ancients or 
our secret gold” 
and “the moon- 
white water”, 
called “our 
python” (a code 
name for Mer- 
curius vivus). 


RAY 


Neste 
anni 


bas 
RG 


“Good, pure, oleous and mild soil, neces- and water spirit will bless your fruit.” 
sary moisture for putrefaction and nour- (M. Barcius, “Gloria Mundi”, in: Hermeti- 
ishment for growth, also the warmth of sches ABC, Berlin, 1778) 

the sun for growth and fecundity; seeds 

need all these things. And likewise in the D. Stolcius von Stolcenberg, Viridarium 
art. First, prepare your seed in the matter; chymicum, Frankfurt, 1624 

you should clean this (...) and the pure fire 


Abraham Eleazer, 
Uraltes chymisches 
Werk, Leipzig, 1760 


326 Opus MacNum: Vegetable chemistry Opus Macnum: Vegetable chemistry 327 


Se 
sa Serpent 


The second illus- 
tration in Flamel’s 
codex showed 
“across, where a 
snake was fas- 
tened and cruci- 
fied”. 


“Here you see, 
flowing froma 
desert, a lunar, 
white water which 
is from the old 
progenitor of all 
things, spread on 
two paths.” This is 
the dangerous dry 
path “that goes 
from the oiliness 
of the earth, from 
the primordial 


1 tf | unisfit 
erent 


The serpent that 
Moses nailed to 
the cross “that it 
might be seen be- 
fore all the people 


Hit paraenei eines HS 1x 


(TA ET 


Hy 


chaos. The other seat it OEE i | 
(wet path) from Gist ‘ . Wpyt Oi XS and they might 
our black, heavy : Zi Wy, Me recover from the 
and white lump; at = gee pe plague they had 
but that the endured”, isa 
symbol of the 


healing power of 
the Mercurial 
elixir, the crucified 
Christ John 3, 14). 
Pseudo-Eleazar 
calls this snake the 
“powerful king of 
nature” who heals 
the whole world, a 
salt-balm. But be- 
fore it can become 
effective, the pri- 
material poison- 
ous body must be 
dismembered 

and the volatile 
spirit fixed with a 
golden nail. 


snakes creep in 
the grass, the 
Python (Mercury) 
is in the dry path, 
for this is very 
poisonous, but if it 
must climb the 
mountains (head 
of the still) anum- 
ber of times, it 
becomes a flower, 
and almost medici- 
nal.” 


sonar 


raul 


nudll)) 


Sirisieen 
i 


fyaaillit 


A. Eleazar, Uraltes 
chymisches Werk, 
Leipzig, 1760 


ill 


li 
EESBESTE 


A. Eleazar, Uraltes 
chymisches Werk, 
Leipzig, 1760 


a 


a 


328 Opus Ma : 
GNUM: Serpent Opus Macnum: Serpent 329 


Serpent 


“The first illustra- 
tion in Flamel’s 
codex showed “a 
rod and two ser- 
pents devouring 
one another”. 
They embody the 
repeated circula- 
tion of distillation 
and condensation. 
“The winged 
snake,” Pseudo- 
Eleazar explains, 
“signifies the uni- 
versal world-spirit, 
(...) which is 
sucked from the 
dew and with 
which we prepare 
our salt. But the 
lowest snake sig- 
nifies our matter, 
(...) the virgin 
earth (...) found 
beneath the 
vegetable roots.” 
This is the 
“philosophers’ 
turf” that Armand 
Barbault dug on 
the nights of the 
new moon. On 
many points, 
Barbault precisely 
followed the 
instructions of 
Pseudo-Eleazar. 
(cf. p. 320) 


A. Eleazar, Uraltes 
chymisches Werk, 
Leipzig, 1760 


330 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


rerinrn 
oes 


ert 
3583855 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


Serpent 


“The top snake 
(No. 3) is the cos- 
mic spirit which 
brings everything 
to life, which also 
kills everything 
and takes all the 
figures of nature. 
To summarize: he 
is everything, and 
also nothing.” 
Through the art of 
separation one 
makes the One 
into Two, “which 
have the Third and 
Fourth within 
themselves. It is 
the most volatile 
and also the most 
fixed, itis a fire 
that consumes 
everything, and 
opens and closes 
everything (...). 
Cook this fire with 
fire until it stops, 
and you have the 
most fixed thing 
that penetrates all 
things, and one 
worm has eaten 
the other, and this 
figure (No. 4) 
comes out.” 


It is called 
Ouroboros. In 
Coptic Ouro means 
king, and in 
Hebrew ob means 
asnake. 


A. Eleazar, Donum 
Dei, Erfurt, 1735 


331 


Serpent 


“These are the two 
snakes fastened 
around Mercury’s 
staff, with which 
he demonstrates 
his great power 
and changes into 
whichever forms 
he wishes (...). 
When these two 
are placed 
together in the 
vessel of the Dead 
Tomb, they bite 
one another 
cruelly (...). 
Through putre- 
faction they lose 
their first natural 
forms to take ona 
new, nobler form 
(...). The reason 
why I make you 
draw these two 
(male and female) 
seeds inthe form 
of a dragon is 
because their stink 
is very great, and 
their poison (...)”. 
(Nicolas Flamel, 
Chymische Werke, 
Hamburg edition, 
1681) 


Livre des figures 


hieroglyphiques, 
Paris, 17th century 


332 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


Serpent 


The two snakes 
which, in this 
tantric depiction, 
symbolize cosmic 
energy, are wound 
around an invisible 
lingam (phallus). 

In Sanskrit, the 
microcosmic form 
of this universal 
energy is called 
kundalini. The vital 
stream of the 
awakened kun- 
dalini ascends 
along the spine 
via the central, 
subtle channel, 
the susumn, to the 
centre of the 
brain. To the left, 
is the lunar chan- 
nel, ida, to the 
right the solar 
channel, pingala. 
The three channels 
come together 
again in the area 
around the eye- 
brows. 


Bosohli, c. 1700 


333 


Serpent 


“In India the spine 
is called the staff 
of Brahma. IIlustra- 
tion 4.also shows 
the archetype of 
the Caduceus, 
whose two ser- 
pents symbolize 
the Kundalini or 
the serpent fire 
(...) while the wings 
signify the power 
of conscious flight 
through the higher 
worlds brought 
about by the 
unfolding of this 
fire.” 

(C.W. Leadbeater, 
The Chakras,1927) 


Ripley’s “Serpent 
of Arabia” speaks: 
“Azoth is truly my 
sister, and Kibrick 
(Arabic kibrit, 
sulphur) is indeed 
my brother”. 
Ripley advises: 
divide it in Three, 
make from it One 
and you have the 
lapis. 


Theatrum 
chemicum 
Britannicum, 
London, 1652 


334 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


tints aniiesacaiatee 


IE SAM 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


Serpent 


The illustration 
shows “two para- 
bolic streams (...) 
which together 
yield the mysteri- 
ous triangular 
stone” and “a mys- 
terious and natural 
fire whose spirit 
penetrates the 
stone and sublim- 
ates it into 
vapours which 
thicken in the 
vessel”. It should 
also be observed 
“that art gives this 
divine fluid a 
double crown of 
perfection by 
reversing the 
elements and 
purifying the 
beginnings, from 
which it becomes 
Mercury's 
Caduceus” and 
“that this very 
like a Phoenix (...) 
attains the final 
perfecton of the 
fixed philo- 
sophers’ sulphur.” 


A.T. de Limojon de 
Saint-Didier, Le Tri- 
omphe hermétique, 
1689, German edi- 
tion Frankfurt, 1765 


335 


Serpent 


336 


Seal of the spagyric laboratory ‘Soluna’, 
founded in 1921 by the poet and shadow 
player Alexander von Bernus at Stift 
Neuburg near Heidelberg, and continued 
a few years later in Stuttgart. According 
to Bernus, iatrochemical spagyrics, which 
date back to Paracelsus, refers to “that 
type of healing which includes both com- 
plex homeopathy and biochemistry and 
goes beyond itself; for on the one hand it 
encompasses the whole fund of medicines 
of both, on the other it gives the disabled 
organism the indicated ingredients in (...) 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


an ‘open’ and thus assimilable state, 
particularly the metals, half-metals and 
minerals.” 


These medicines, according to Bernus, 
have their effect through the invisible 
“fluid body” or “ethereal body” of man 
and are thus capable “of summoning up 
the healing forces without burdening the 
organism with poisonous substances and 
doing it lasting damage, so that it may 
reorganize itself”. (Von Bernus, Alchymie 
und Heilkunst, Stuttgart, 1936) 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


Serpent 


Allegory of the 
marriage of the 
dual principles in 
the work: on the 
left the female, 
mercurial side 
with the pelican as 
asymbolic animal, 
feeding its young 
with its blood, and 
on the right, the 
male, sulphur side 
with the firebird, 
the Phoenix. 


Figuarum 
Aegyptiorum 
Secretarum, 
18th century 


337 


Serpent 


This illustration is 
inspired by a sec- 
tion from the Rip- 
ley Scroll, various 
copies of which 
were in circulation 
in the 15th and 
16th centuries. 


Adam (Hebrew: 
red earth) is sul- 
phur, Eve mercury. 
According to Ful- 
canelli, the snakes 
of the Caduceus 
represent the 


Serpent 


The “Red Sea” in 
the caption above 
this detail from 
the Ripley Scroll 
was a well-known 
code name for the 
divine mercurial 
water and its tinc- 
turing power. Here 
it is depicted as 
the blood pouring 
from the heart of 
the “Serpent of 
Arabia”. It brings 
happiness to 


Pe Oi Bae oi AN ANS Kaper cement whomsoever finds 


“sharp and dis- Ee wre i fig shee it, and flows, 


solving nature of 
mercury, which 
greedily absorbs 
the metallic sul- 
phur (the golden 
staff)”. 

(Le Mystére des 
Cathédrales, Paris, 
1964) 


Fiquarum Aegyp- 
tiorum Secretarum, 
18th century 


round as a ball, to 
every place in the 
world, Ripley 
writes. 


The comparison of 
the little red 
blood-corpuscles 
and the lapis reap- 
pears as a /e/t- 
motif in William 
Blake’s relative 
theory of space 
and time, which he 
developed in his 
late poem Milton 
as a response 

to the concepts 

of Newton 


(cf. p. 426). 


Ripley Scroll, 
manuscript, 
16th century 


398 Opus Macnum: Serpent Opus MacNum: Serpent 339 


Serpent 


”The dragon has 
killed the woman 
and she him, and 
both are poured 
over with blood.” 


340 


The dragon that dwells in the narrow 
crevasses embodies the elements of earth 
and fire, the woman water and air, accord- 
ing to Maier. Earth refers on the one hand 
to the physical sediment of distillation, 
and on the other to the “virgin earth” of 
the philosophers, at the centre of which is 
hidden the great dragon blaze, the secret 
fire. Here the two, of which “one is white 
(Mercury) and the other red (Sulphur)”, 
nestle united in a deep grave, the putre- 
faction. 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


This final image from Maier’s Ata/anta 
fugiens was taken up by Blake, who was 
well versed in Hermetic symbolism. He 
interpreted the woman as Jerusalem or 
the spiritual emanation of the fallen Eng- 
land/Albion, which lay in the strangling 
grip of materialistic powers. 


M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


Serpent 


From the python 
(Mercurius vivus) 
a “heavy, greasy 
water” is prepar- 
ed. “In this water 
you can dissolve 
the king (gold), his 
whole body, and 
then hand it to 
Vulcan, who 
cooks both in the 
supreme medi- 
cine. Thus, with 
this greasy python, 
one can fecundate 
the king and the 
queen, so that 
they will conceive 
incredible num- 
bers of children.” 


A. Eleazar, Donum 
Dei, Erfurt, 1735 


341 


Serpent 


The ” Mercurial 
tail-eater” is “our 
subject”. “From 
this one root will 
sprout roses, the 
supreme good.” 
The white rose 
signifies the lunar 
“Philosophical 
Tincture”, the red 
rose the solar 
“Metallic Tinc- 
ture”. The mysteri- 
ous “blue rose” 
in the middle is 
called the “flower 
of wisdom”. 


Blue is not given 
any autonomous 
significance in al- 
chemical colour 
theories. It gener- 
ally signifies a 
moist state of mat- 
ter, andis treated 
as a modification 
of saturnine black, 
the sign of high 
spirituality and ar- 
cane knowledge. 


H, Reussner, Pan- 
dora, Basle, 1582 


342 


 Hereurins 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


The ancients, Maier writes, saw the 
Ouroboros ring both as “the change and 
return of the year” and as the beginning 
of the Work in which the poisonous, moist 
dragon’s tail is consumed. When the 
dragon has completely sloughed its skin, 
like the snake, the supreme medicine has 
risen from its poison. 


In Goethe’s hermetic Marchen (1795), the 
Ouroboros plays an important part: “(...) 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


sweet Lily stood motionless, staring 
rigidly at the soulless corpse (...) In her 
mute despair she sought not help, for she 
knew of no help. The snake moved all the 
more assiduously against it (...) With its 
lithe body it drew a broad circle around 
the corpse and grasped the end of its tail 
with its teeth and lay there peacefully.” 


M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 


Serpent 


“Not without 
reason do the 
ancient philo- 
sophers compare 
quicksilver with a 
snake (...) because 
it pulls a tail 
behind it and its 
weight drags it 
hither and 
thither.” 


343 


Serpent 


The magical in- 
scriptions on the 
Abraxas gem- 
stones were often 
surrounded by the 
Ouroboros. He is 
Eon, the entirety 
of time and space, 
and also Okeanos, 
the water-belt in 
the gnostic cos- 
mology, which 
separates the 
upper sphere of 
the Pneuma from 
the lower, dark 
waters. 


Heinrich Khunrath 
calls “our Mer- 
cury” Proteus, the 
eternally wander- 
ing watery, old 
man from Greek 
mythology, “who 
has the keys to the 
sea (...) and power 
over everything, 
the son of 
Oceanus (...) who 
reforms and 
returns in diverse 
forms”. (Vom 
hylealischen Chaos, 
Frankfurt, 1708) 


Whoever manages 
to grasp and pre- 
serve him will 
achieve great and 
wonderful things. 


Johannes Macarius, 
Abraxas en 
Apistopistus, 
Antwerp, 1657 


344 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


Cantclare fue 


46d 
we 


yaa 


Phaser ny 


PA 
Say HA 


a te 
OC ap 
Aiwa 


sic ane 
rene 


The earliest interpretations of hieroglyph 
have been handed down to us in the Greek 
language by Horapollo, an Egyptian of the 
5th century A.D.. “If they wish to repre- 
sent the universe, they draw a snake scat- 
tered with bright scales, swallowing its 
own tail: the flakes indicate the stars of 
the universe (...) Each year it divests itself 
of its skin, the old time (...) And the con- 
sumption of its own body indicates that all 
things in the world which may be pro- 
duced by divine providence in the world, 
also succumb to decay.” 


Il. top/bottom: A. Kircher, “rg, 
Sex 


Obeliscus aegyptiacus, Rome, 1666 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


Serpent 


In the outer ring of this Egyptian time- 
wheel, an attempt is made to harmonize 
the 360 degrees of the zodiac with the 365 
days of the calendar. Among the Egyp- 
tians, the extra five days were devoted to 
the birth of the gods and the new year. 
The twelve months follow in the central 
ring, and within that the snake of eternity 
connects the four gods Sothis (=Sirius), 
Isis, Osiris and Horus. Each of them is the 
ruler of a “great year” consisting of 365 
earthly years. All told, they produce 1461 
years, the amount of time between the 
moments when the year’s first rise of 
Sirius coincides with the sunrise. 


According to more recent discoveries, the 

directional shaft in the queen’s chamber in 
the pyramid of Cheops is said to be aimed 

precisely at this fixed star, which was held 

to be the star of Isis. 


Sass 


345 


Serpent 


346 


To the poor soul who wants to turn away 
from God, the Devil shows his own image 
as the cycle of nature, “in the form ofa 
snake: the fire-wheel of essence”. He 
speaks: “You too are sucha fiery Mercury, 
as you introduce your desire into this art. 
But you must eat from a fruit in which each 
of the four elements reacts within itself to 
the other, with which it is in conflict.’” 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


When the soul has eaten of it, “Vulcan 
lights the fire-wheel of essence, and all 
the qualities of nature awakened in the 
soul, and guided it into its own pleasure 
and desire”. (J. Bohme, Gesprach einer 
erleuchteten und unerleuchteten Seele) 


J. B6hme, Theosophische Werke, 
Amsterdam, 1682 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


Nil 


hl 


Serpent 


Since Vulcan lit 
the mercurial 
wheel of anguish 
into which the soul 
had imagined it- 
self, “its meaning 
only stands after 
the multiplicity of 
natural things”. It 
is entirely subject 
to the changeable 
play of the pas- 
sions. 


The illuminated 
soul counsels the 
poor soul to break 
the bonds of the 
monstrous snake- 
husk by introdu- 
cing it to Christ, 
the spirit of love, 
who, by becoming 
flesh, had burst 
the gates of Hell 
and thus reopened 
the way to 
Paradise. 


J. Bohme, 
Theosophische 
Wercke, 
Amsterdam, 1682 


347 


Return 


348 


In the emblem of the Theosophical Society, a combination of the 
western Ouroboros, the eastern Swastika, the Jewish Star of David 
and the ancient Egyptian Ankh, its syncretic programme is very 
directly expressed. 

The society was founded in New York in 1875 by the Russian 
emigrant Helena P. Blavatsky (1831-1891), described by W.B. Yeats as 
a “primeval peasant”. In Joyce's Finnegans Wake, she appears as a hen 
scratching a mysterious piece of writing froma dung-heap. This is 
her ‘Secret Doctrine’, published in three volumes in 1888, a mythical 
pot-pourri such as is found, for example, in paintings by Max Beck- 
mann, imbued with the spirit of fin-de-siécle salon spiritualism. 

In 1879 the society moved its main seat to Adyar in India. The 
mixture of Eastern spirituality and Western 
occultism made a decisive contribution to the 
development of abstract painting. Wassily Kandin- 
sky and Piet Mondrian were among the society's 
devotees. 

Her programme of “science, religion and 
philosophy”, which she sought to promulgate with 
a keen sense of dramatic effect, also makes 
Madame Blavatsky a herald of the New Age move- 
ment of the late 20th century. 

According to her theory, the whole cosmos 
consists of a seven-stage process of evolution and 
involution. The goal of humanity is the upward 
development from the sexual, material body to 
the ethereal, light body. This path leads from the currently dominant 
Aryan mother-race to a sublimated race of people that she saw 
emerging in the America of her own time. It is clear that such 
doctrines, which were easily compatible with the inhuman racial doc- 
trines of Guido von List and Lanz-Liebenfels, could become esoteric 
supports for the formation of Nazi ideology. 


Opus Macnum: Return 


After the death of Madame Blavatsky, 
there was a break in 1895 between the 
Indian headquarters of the Theosophical 
Society and its original seat in the USA, 


which was run by Katherine Tingley. Chris- 


tian and Nordic motifs predominate in 
her painting of the eternal cycle of global 
ascents and descents. 

When the leaders of the society in India 


Opus Macnum: Return 


sought to impose upon its European mem- 
bers a Hindu boy called Krishnamurti as a 
new Messiah, in 1913, under the direction 
of Rudolf Steiner, the German section 
broke away to form itself as the Anthropo- 
sophical Society. 


The Theosophical Path, Ed. Katherine 
Tingley, Point Loma, California, USA, 1926 


Return 


349 


Return 


“Since the matter 
and substance of 
things are indes- 
tructible, all its 
parts are subject 
to all forms, so 
that Each and 
Everything be- 
comes Everything 
and Each, if not 
at one and the 
same time and in 
asingle minute, 
then at various 
times and various 
moments, in 
sequence and in 
alternation.” 
(Giordano Bruno, 
Ash Wednesday, 
1584) 


Cycle of rebirth, 


Bhaktivedanta 
Book Trust, 1993 


350 


Opus Macnum: Return 


At the top left of the picture, we see the 
cause of the great cosmic disorder: when 
Urizen, reason, falls asleep, drunk at the 
wheel of the sun-chariot, Luvah, passion, 
takes control of the vehicle. The result of 
this reversal is the dark “sea of time and 
space” with the cycle of incarnations. 


In the Pofiteia, Plato speaks of the “thou- 
sand-year wandering of the soul”, defined 
by the “spindle of necessity”, and by the 
three Fates who decide on birth, life and 
death (bottom left). At the right, with a 


Opus Macnum: Return 


bucket of water from the source of life in 
his hand, the soul rises into the vegetable 
hollow of the body, which is woven by 
women at the “womb-spinning-wheels of 
generation”. 


The figure in the red robe at the left may 
be Odysseus, “who symbolizes man on his 
way via the dark and stormy sea of the 
Generatio”. (Thomas Taylor, Plotinus, 
Concerning the Beautiful, London, 1787) 


W. Blake, The Arlington Court Picture, 1821 


Return 


351 


Return 


Return 


c= 
aes 
2) io) 
HE g Eg 
Be suze 
=r Gig Ri XY OEG 
#5 one SEE? 
Sq ~Seste Sass 
mn = ecBd E2os 
o§ eae LS Bm fo) 
Esc oo FHEBQ he 
PS alom =2oAs nar 
Hy) ; 
i came 
f : 
fe £ 
AC : 
Rie f a Ror : S 
} ’ ‘: 11 dee anaes . g 
Wy Pip itizyg, SSS 2 
4 iY . eS y i % 
Abvtyy aie 2 
At : o tc] 
i é Y t : = <q 
; f E : ef ’ we = 
Lis 8 3 
4 4 if Nt RN oa z 
j ; ans feaue } es = fo) 


Return 


. 2 
peeaee Pe 9 
S 
a un 
i 5 
a 
(eo) 
8 ees 
ees 
Nog Sag = 2s 
oe S.f Ss 6 oss 
ane Lf os So) 2 
es S 
< Se OS Omi 
SST UH e2oest 
ec a5 ES = 
Pies US be = oe 
SESFangsLs 
eESH5PESERES ih 
QGxeLgunutsggs a 


Conjunctio 


“Hermes writes: The dragon only dies 
when he is killed by his brother and sister 
at once. Not by one alone, but by both at 
once, namely by sun and moon (...) That 
means that one must fix and unite it with 
Luna or Sol. The dragon is the living quick- 
silver drawn from or out of the bodies that 
have a body, soul and spirit. Hence, it is 
also said that the dragon does not die 
without his brother and his sister (...).” 
(Rosarium philosophorum, Ed. J. Telle, 
Weinheim, 1992) 


“The dragon always represents Mercury, 
whether it is fixed or volatile,” writes 
Maier. Within it is Saturn, who eats his 
own tail and, because of his poison and his 
sharp teeth, is a watchful and faithful 
servant of the philosophers, who is not 
easily vanquished. 


M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 


Conjunctio 


”Our Mercurial 
dragon” can only 
be conquered by 
Sol and Luna to- 
gether, that is, in 
order to kill him 
one must remove 
his sulphur and 
lunar moisture at 
the same time. 


Aurora consurgens, 
early 16th century 


“It is said: Woman dissolves man, and he “Senior says: |am a hot and dry Sol and 

makes her solid. That is: The spirit dis- you Luna are cold and moist. When we 

solves the body and makes it soft, and the couple and come together (...) | will with 

body fixes the spirit.” flattery take your soul from you”. (Aurora 
consurgens) 


Aurora consurgens, early 16th century 


354 Opus Macnum: Conjunctio Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 355 


Conjunctio 


The king, Gabri- 
cius, and his sister, 
Beya, want to em- 
brace “to conceive 
ason whose like is 
unknown to the 
world”. 


The feet of the 
gryphon or dragon 
in the rock indic- 
ate that both are 
from the same 
poisonous 
parental house 

of prime matter. 
In the Rosarium 
philosophorum 

it also says: “The 
intercourse of 
Gabricius with 
Beya leads to his 
immediate death. 
For Beya rises 
above Gabricius, 
and encloses him 
in her womb, so 
that nothing can 
be seen of him. So 
great is her love 
that she has 
absorbed him 
entire into her 
nature and divided 
him into indivis- 
ible parts”. 

J.D. Myltius, 


Anatomia auri, 
Frankfurt, 1628 


356 


Rit 
Hee 


as 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


In the green mountain of prima materia 

the signs of the relevant materials are 
assigned to Saturn's magic square of num- 
bers. At the top, sun and moon lift their 
‘imperial son’ (the mercurial tincture) from 
its baptism in the retort. 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


Conjunctio 


QMAAD, oi 
let Sneealler 


The manuscript, from the circle of the Gold 
and Rosicrucians, contains parallels with 
Kirchweger’s Aurea Catena a Homeri (1781). 


Materia Prima Lapidis Philosophorum, 
manuscript, early 18th century 


357 


eS en a ge ee ee ee a a ee a eS a 


Conjunctio Conjunctio 


The ‘Donum Dei’, ) ' “The stone is pre- 
first'tontainedin ‘vita versie al stein thon bon pa main pte betes Ath Aritce Soheteppecancs aero eames sbyronsiarccmnpapl eine separ mmencmt isis imaniiahinestraescib titania inkl pared from four 


rion iE Sotvaio II. ‘kK SOLVTIO PERFECT Ce anen 


i I La together./ Here, 
fiona edit ec tem the bodies dis- 


cosh pictpetappectelaeymet ste t tby RSE hott eens 0s BOM pryes nPTniO NOFA Aer hutpMRtAD MELE ort FASE Ut Asha 


one of the most 


F170 4 {nen bt) Vestn Dorel ante meat Rav MART cpa bey sPaD Tzz BR pone 4 PRUE ah Gof han atanesotece sp cesuecyat er je8th 


widespread 
alchemical collec- 
tions of quota- 
tions. Here, the 
stages of the work 
are illustrated in 
twelve pictures. 


The royal pair 
seeks to unite to 
give birth to ason, 
aking “his head 
red, his eyes black, 
his feet white: this 
is mastery”. 


“We want to go 
and seek the na- 
ture of the four el- 
ements which the 
alchemists draw 


+ 


solve entirely in 
our living quick- 
silver, that is, in 
the water of our 
mercury, and from 
it emerges a 
permanently 
persistent water.” 


”Return the nature 
of the four ele- 
ments, and soon 
you will find what 
you seek, but to 
return nature 
means making 
corpses into spirits 
in our mastery.” 


Donum Dei, 
17th century 


from the belly of 
the earth./ Here 
begins the dissolu- 
tion of the wise 
(solutio), and from 
it comes our quick- 
silver.” 


Donum Dei, 
17th century 


358 Opus Macnum: Conjunctio Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 359 


Conjunctio 


“Putrefaction of 
the wise their 
raven-head/ (...) 
when you see the 
blackness delight, 
for it is the begin- 
ning of your 
work.” 


This phase lasts 
for along time, 

so one should be 
patient, “for 
where our mastery 
is concerned, 
haste comes from 
the devil”. 


The following 
pictures describe 
the formation of a 
black, stinking 
earth, its disso- 
lution into the 
mercurial 
“philosophers’ 
oil”, the first 
whitening and the 
appearance of 
many colours. 


Donum Dei, 
17th century 


360 


ia 
| 
i 
| 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


CINERVM 24. 


Xa 


Conjunctio 


”An ash of ashes/ 
The black fogs 
have settled on 
her body, from 
where they 
started, and there 
has arisen a unity 
between the earth 
and the water and 
there has arisen an 
ash.” This ash 
should not be 
underestimated, 
for init, according 
to the legendary 
alchemist 
Morienus, is the 
diadem of the 
king. 


In similar illustra- 
tions, the tree that 
grows from the 
ashes grows a 
grape-like fruit or 
the three stars of 
the work. 


Donum Dei, 
17th century 


361 


Conjunctio 


“The white rose. 
lam the elixir of 
Whiteness, turn- 
ing all imperfect 
metals into the 
purest silver.” 


The Catalan 
physician Arnald 
of Villanova (ca. 
1240-1311) quotes: 
“Whosoever has 
made me white 


also makes me red. 


Both white and 
red spring froma 
single root”. 
Whiteness is only 
transformed into 
redness by dry 
coction (Calcina- 
tio), just as white 
urine is coloured 
yellow by continu- 
ous digestion in 
the body. 


Donum Dei, 
17th century 


362 


RIPE ranteroe eet nutorBLFORE Ear STOP FO MHA RIESE rete Pree dea metro tne A SAYA oped esitin nis} terserstaghadboba bnitpsdincrtine rad te 
Usa Hi r 
A i 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


Rosa 


VBEA 


A ey eh wl bie | ede 


its emrsnne deo gach aint a i 


f 


X11 


Seer ree erent rey te 


Conjunctio 


“The red rose. lam 
the elixir of Red- 
ness, turning all 
imperfect bodies 
into the purest 
and truest gold.” 


The red king 
shines like the sun, 
“clear as the car- 
buncle, impetu- 
ously fluid like a 
wax, resistant to 
fire, penetrating 
and containing liv- 
ing quicksilver. He 
combines absolute 
sulphurous solid- 
ity with ultimate 
mercurial flexibil- 


ity. 


According to the 
Christian doctrine 
of transubstantia- 
tion, the purple 
colour of blood is 
the supreme form 
of spirituality. 


Donum Dei, 
17th century 


363 


Conjunctio Conjunctio 
fies cia The So/ and Luna poem, a slightly abbreviated version of which is 

qainst her silver- . 

nets” (J. Joyce, reproduced on the following pages, has circulated since 1400. It ap- 


peared in an illustrated version in 1550, in the first publication of the 
Rosarium philosophorum and 
has, since then, been one 

of the most popular and 
widespread alchemical pic- 
ture-books. The alchemical 
scholar, Joachim Telle, who 
has devoted an in-depth 
study to the work (J. Telle, 
Sol und Luna, Hiirtgenwald, 
1980), laments the inter- 
pretative trend of psycho- 
analyst C.G. Jung that has 
predominated in the 20th 
century. In the sequence of 
pictures Jung saw principally 
a notation of psychic and 
unconscious ‘projections’ 
ora ‘symbolic drama’. 

By making the pictures 
contemporary in this way, 
Telle writes, one risks losing 
the historical singularity of 
the picture-poem. “Spiritual 
and psychological interpre- 
tations ignore above all the fact that the picture-poem is connected 
with scientific texts (...) Over the centuries, it was seen as an educa- 
tional aid teaching about processes in the material world.” The roots 
of this picture-alchemy lie in Arabic alchemy; we know too little 
about its complex teachings. 


Finnegans Wake) 


5, Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 

16th century 


hk 
*. 
i 
i) 


: 

; 

H 

[ < 
iN 

Ni 

N 


MELEE. 


2, 


64 Opus Macnum: Conjunctio Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 365 


Conjunctio 


UNIFICATION OR 
COPULATION 


“O Luna, 
surrounded by . 
me/and sweet one 
mine/ 


You become 
fine/strong/and 
powerful as lam 


O Sal/you are 
recognizable 
above all others/ 


You need meas 
the cock needs the 
hens.” 


EXTRACTION OF 
THE SOUL OR IM- 
PREGNATION 


“Here, king and 
queen lie dead/ 


The soul departs in 
qreat haste. 


Here, the four ele- 
ments separate/ 


Ancl from the body 


the soul departs 
apace.” 


166 


CS (ge acca racers 
el 
oat 
f) 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


We LO PL 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


Conjunctio 


WASHING OR 
PURIFICATION 


“Here, the dew 
falls from the sky/ 


And washes the 
black body in the 
grave.” 


JUBILATION OF 
THE SOUL OR 
BIRTH OR 
SUBLIMATION 


“Here, the soul 
floats down/ 


And refreshes the 
purified corpse.” 


All illustrations: 
Rosarium 
philosophorum, 
1550 


367 


Conjunctio 


FIXING 


“Here Luna’s life is 
not at an end/ 


The spirit rises 
high apace. 


368 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


N SA 


” vs 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


QM 


Conjunctio 


MULTIPLICATION 


“Here, the water 
sinks/ 


And gives the 
earth its water to 
drink again.” 


REVIVAL 


“Here the soul 
comes from the 
sky, fine and clear. 


And resurrects the 
philosopher's 
daughter.” 


All illustrations: 
Rosarium 
phifosophorum, 
1550 


369 


Androgyny 


The extensive pic- 
ture series from 
the Philosophia re- 
formata of J.D. 
Mylius (1622) was 
clearly influenced 
by the “Sol and 
Luna’ picture 
poem. After puri- 
fication by fire and 
the dissolution of 
their bodies in the 
mercurial bath, 
the royal brother 
and sister are 
united. The ravens 
indicate the stage 
of putrefaction. 


The pair arise asa 
rebis from the 
grave of putrefac- 
tion, and are 
cleaned of their 
blackness by the 
dew of heaven. 


370 


ea 


Ss eee 


Opus Macnum: Androgyny 


Opus Macnum: Androgyny 


Androgyny 


Philosophical gold 
and silver appear 
on the faces of the 
rebis. The pres- 
ence of the two 
winged creatures 
indicates the final 
processes of sub- 
limation. 


The pelican, feed- 
ing its young with 
its blood, symbol- 
izes the final 
phase of the Mul- 
tiplicatio. Given 
definitive strength 
and fixity, the red 
and white lapis 
arise from the 
mercurial spring. 


All iflustrations: 
D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


371 


Androgyny 


“The hermaphrod- 
ite, lying in the 
dark like a corpse, 
needs fire.” 


The philosophers 
call the cold and 
moist matter, 
woman (moon), 
the hot and dry, 
man (sun). The an- 
drogynous being is 
all four qualities 
at once. With fire 
one can remove 
the excess of 
moisture and form 
“the idea in the 
philosophical 
work, which is 
tincture”. 


M. Maier, 
Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


Il. right: 
W. Blake, 
Jerusalem, 
1804-1820 


372 


After Adam had fallen from celestial androgynity into the death- 


sleep of materiality, Christ followed him down into this “unreality”, 
in order, by creating Eve, to give him the possibility of redemption. 
Bohme wrote: “Christ turned Adam in his sleep from vanity (...) back 
to the image of the angel”, while he created Eve “from his essence, 
from the female part”. “She is Adam’s matrix of celestial essence 
(Sophia)”. Blake called these female parts ‘emanation’ and the male 
parts the shadowy spectre. The central task of earthly existence was 
the redemption of the ‘emanation’ and the unification of the two 
parts. The path there leads, according to Blake, through sensual 
delights and physical fulfilment, and it is distorted by false moral 
teachings and dogmatic religiosity as the chief instruments of sexual 


repression. 


Opus Macnum: Androgyny 


Opus Macnum: Androgyny 


Androgyny 


373 


Androgyny 


Ulmannus (early 
15th century) 
began, like Jacob 
Bohme, with 
man’s free choice 
between the 
worlds of wrath 
and love. “Here 
you have three 
kingdoms in which 
you wish to be, 
your works are in 
accordance”. Man 
is created out of 
the twofold sun”. 
The inward, spir- 
itual sun embodies 
the divine 
hermaphrodite. 
He is the personi- 
fication of un- 
selfish alchemy, 
consisting of 
“jesus, the male 
stone of purity” 
(Mercurius/spirit) 
and “mary, the 
female stone of 
loveliness” 
(Luna/body). Their 
unity is God the 
Father (Sol/soul), 
the “petrolith”, 
which strengthens 
against all the 
devil’s tempta- 
tions. 


Buch der heiligen 


Dreifaltigkeit, 
15th century 


374 


Opus Macnum: Androgyny 


Opus Macnum: Androgyny 


Androgyny 


This androgynous 
being is the spec- 
tral, immodest na- 
ture from “Lucifer 
Anti-Christ and his 
mother: one body 
and soul, fixed and 
volatile. Herein 
consist the natural 
arts of this world”. 
Their roots are the 
seven deadly sins. 
The four crowns 
are the elements, 
represented by 
the lower qua- 
dernity in Ulman- 
nus’ system: Mars 
(fire), Venus 
(water), Saturn 
(earth), Jupiter 
(air), “the ele- 
ments bring good 
and evil, sepa- 
rated eternally”. 
They are nega- 
tively united in the 
“black memorial 
sun” as “sol lapis 
metal corporeal”. 


Buch der Heiligen 


Dreifaltigkeit, 
15th century 


375 


Androgyny 


The introductory 
page of the Aurora 
Consurgens is an 
allegory of wis- 
dom, also known 
as ‘the south 
wind’, as asymbol 
both of the Holy 
Spirit and of the 
totality of subli- 
mations. 


Here, the south 
wind is repres- 
ented as a large 
eagle, gradually 
uniting the two 
opposites. The 
three legs on 
which the andro- 
gynous being 
stands, refer to 
the three-footed 
stand on which the 
retort is exposed 
to the fire. After 
the coupling, Sol 
says to Luna, “we 
will rise into the 
order of the most 
ancient [that is 24 
sublimations or 
eagles], then will 
a burning light be 
poured into me 
and you” (Senior 
Zadith, in: Aurora 
Consurgens). 


376 


Opus Macnum: Androgyny 


P| 
t 
Ie. 
: 


| 


Matthaus Merian originally made this engraving for J.D. Mylius’ 
Opus Medico-Chymicum (1618). It was later used in the appendix to 
the Musaeum Hermeticum (1625). 

Merian presented all the components of the Great Work ina 
single great synthesis: a horizontal axis separates the sphere of the 
divine from the wheel of nature, which is divided into the various 
phases of the Work, from raven-nigredo to phoenix-rubedo. The 
dividing artist stands surrounded by a forest of metal, separating 
along the verticals, in a powerful act, chaotic matter into day and 
night, sun and moon, sulphur and mercury, fire and water. The great 
unification occurs at the centre of the wheel, the intersection of the 
axes, in the sign of the mercurial lapis, the “philosophers” hydrolith”. 

The deer-headed figure to the right is the hunter Actaeon, who 
espies nature (Diana/Luna) unclothed. For Giordano Bruno, heisa 
symbol of the fearless searcher after truth. 


Opus Macnum: Separatio 


377 


Hermetic 
Yantras 


In the Hindu reli- 
gion, the simplest 
geometrical 
representations 

of dynamic powers 
are called “Yantras”. 
Heinrich Zimmer 
calls them “a kind 
of map (...) of the 
staged develop- 
ment of a vision”. 
(Mythen und Sym- 
bole in indischer 
Kunst und Kultur, 
Zurich, 1951) 


“Make of man and woman a circle, from 
that a square, then a triangle, then an- 
other circle, and you will have the philo- 
sophers’ stone.” 


For the alchemists there was nothing 
strange about the squaring of the circle, 
wrote Maier. They use the square that 
comes from the circle to demonstrate 
“that from every simple body the four 


appear in three brief colours before the 
redness”. The body is assigned saturnine 
blackness, the spirit the lunar-watery 
whiteness and the soul the airy, citric 
colour. “If the triangle has now attained 
its highest perfection, it must be brought 
back into a circle, that is, an immutable 
redness. Through which operation 

the woman returns into the man and from 
their legs, asingle one is formed.” 


Hermetic 
Yantras 


Geometrical depiction of the Pythagorean 
tetractys, based on the maxim of anony- 
mous Arab alchemists, as handed down 
through the anthologies of the Turba 
philosophorum and the Rosarium since the 
13th century in Europe. The inner circle 
represents the microcosmic One which, 
through the step of four, becomes the 
macrocosmic ten, which, in turn, as the 
quintessence of the alchemists, encom- 
passes all other possibilities. 


D. Stoicius von Stolcenberg, Viridarium 
chymicum, Frankfurt, 1624 


The archetypal, trinitary heaven encom- 
passes the quadernity of the empyreal or 
fiery heaven, the ethereal heaven and the 
elemental heaven with the earth at the 
centre. This figure is a reflection of the 
tetragrammaton enclosed ina triangle. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


elements must be separated (...) By the 

transformation of the square into a M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 
triangle they teach that one should bring 

forth spirit, body and soul, which then 


YY 


378 Opus Macnum: Hermetic Yantras Opus Macnum: Hermetic Yantras 379 


ee is ee he 


Hermetic 
Yantras 


The hexagram is also known as a magical 
‘Solomon’s Seal’, with which, according to 
legend, Solomon is supposed to have cast 
a spell on the evil spirits. In alchemy and 
theosophy, it is familiar as a “signet star”, 
a “star or heavenly force that gives under- 
standing to the wise and shows the way, 
as to the Wise Men in the East”, (G. Gich- 
tel, 1682). Six, the number of days of 
creation, symbolizes the Opus, and the 
rotating motion in the Work. 


A. von Franckenberg, Raphael oder Arzt- 
Engel, 1639, reprinted 1925 


Emblem engraving from Heinrich 
Madathanus, Aureum Seculum redivivum 
(the Golden Age revived). 


Author's motto: “The centre of the world 
is the corn in the field.” 


In the outer circle: “Of wonders there are 
three: God and man, mother and maid: the 


three and the one.” 


In the inner circle: “The centre in the 
centre of the triangle.” 


M, Maier, Viatorium, Oppenheim, 1618 


380 Opus Macnum: Hermetic Yantras 


BUC ctl 


NE: 


tema aes 


ENUF”, 


ee 


mone 


a 
sy 
x 
eS 
tes 
Re 
$ 
=| 


Opus Macnum: Hermetic Yantras 


Hermetic 
Yantras 


According to 
Tantric doctrine, 
the final truth 
consists in the 
complete 
interpenetration 
of Shiva and 
Shakti, of male 
and female 
energy, of purusha 
(form) and pralkriti 
(matter). Shiva, 
the upward-point- 
ing triangle, 
represents the 
static aspect of 
the supreme 
reality; Shakti, the 
downward-point- 
ing triangle, repre- 
sents the kinetic 
energy of the ob- 
jective universe. 


Vajravarahi 


Mandala, Tibet, 
79th century 


381 


Trinity 


“Our lapis shares 
its name with the 
creator of the 
world; for it is 
three in one.” 
(Zosimos, 

4th century) 


Cornelius Petraeus, 
Sylva philosoph- 
orum, 17th century 


Hore the “mani- 
lost trinity” of the 
right, light-side of 
God is repres- 
ented in Bohme’s 
system, “the king- 
dam of love”. 

IC alone gives the 
shadowy dynamic 
natural gound of 
(ho loft side, the 
“wheel of anguish” 
of Salt, Sulphur 
and Mercury its 
essentiality and 
viviel brilliance. 


DA. Freher, in: 
Works of 

/ Behmen, Law 
(dition, 1764 


2 


MESO COSWNS 


lormer «Fy, 


\ ‘oul i 
set I 


ecze é 
See ; 


“* 
Sa 


(~ 


Opus Macnum: Trinity 


“In the Father is eternity, in the Son iden- 
tity and in the Holy Spirit the marriage 

of eternity and identity (...) and these 
three are one, namely body, spirit and 
soul; for all perfection is based on the 
number three.” (Aurora consurgens, 15th 
century) 


The Trias in the Work is represented by the 
birds in the three colours of the Work. 

The Holy Spirit is compared in the ‘Aurora 
consurgens’ with the mercurial water, 
which makes everything earthly, heavenly, 


Opus Macnunm: Trinity 


Trinity 


in a sevenfold way, and has a cleansing, 
enlivening and fertilizing effect. 


“In every wood, stone and plant are three 
things (...) First, is the power from which 

a body comes (...) then, in the same, is a 
fluid that is the heart of a thing; thirdly, 
therein is a springing force, smell, or taste, 
that is the spirit of a thing, from which it 
grows or increases.” (Jacob Bohme, Aurora, 
1612) 


Aurora consurgens, early 16th century 


383 


Trinity 


In the first Work 
the saturnine 
source material 

is sublimated 
thrice by being 
moistened with 
the ‘boy’s urine’, 

a well-known code 
name for the 
mercurial water. 
Then according 

to the ‘Turba 
philosophorum’, it 
should be cooked 
until the blackness 
passes, 


After the conclu- 
sion of the third 
and last Work the 
elixir has the 
power to pen- 
etrate all impure 
metals (including 
common gold), 
‘transforming them 
into its own heav- 
enly quality. 


384 


Opus MAGNum: Trinity 


Opus Macnum: Trinity 


Trinity 


There are three 
Works in the Opus 
Magnum. The 
philosophers speak 
of three bowls and 
three degrees of 
fixation, indicated 
here by the three 
arrows. The first 
Work is dissolu- 
tion, and ends 
with the phase of 
nigredo, the sec- 
ond ends with red- 
dening, and in the 
third, that of the 
multiplicatio, the 
lapis receives its 
tincturing power. 
The philosophical 
egg has been incu- 
bated. 


Worldly power 
falls to its knees 
before the glory of 
the ‘red son of the 
sun’. The three 
crowns symbolize 
its complete con- 
trol over the three 
realms of plant, 
animal and min- 
eral. 


All illustrations: 


Speculum veritatis, 
q7th century 


385 


Trinity 


Painfully, a father 
(body) separates 
from his only son 
(spirit) and en- 
trusts him to the 
care of a guide 
(soul), who leads 
him up a high 
mountain (still 
head) to show him 
the wide world. 
Here, the sun 
hears his father’s 
cries for help, and 
returns. 


Lambsprinck, De 
Lapide philosoph- 
ico, Frankfurt, 1625 


“Oh, my son, in 
your absence | was 
dead (...) butin 
your presence | 
will live again.” 
Joyfully the (dry) 
father embraces 
the (fluid) son and 
swallows him. 


Lambsprinck, De 


Lapide philosoph- 
ico, Frankfurt, 1625 


386 


Opus MAcnum: Trinity 


Opus Macnum: Trinity 


Trinity 


Here, the father 
sweats, so that 
“the oil and the 
right tincture of 
the philosophers 
flow from him”. 
He asks God to 
give him back his 
only son, whom he 
has swallowed. 
Hereupon, he is 
sent an astral rain 
(dew), which dis- 
solves his body 
while he sleeps. 


Lambsprinck, De 
Lapide philosoph- 
ico, Frankfurt, 1625 


The father, now 
completely trans- 
formed, first into 
“a clear water”, 
then into a “good 
earthly empire”, 
has created anew 
son. “Here father, 
sun and guide are 
linked as one, so 
that they remain 
together for 
eternity.” 


Lambsprinck, De 


Lapide philosoph- 
ico, Frankfurt, 1625 


387 


Trinity 


388 


Here, one of the most complicated and fascinating systems in the 
history of alchemy is concealed behind the conventional apparel of a 
“Coronation of the Virgin”. The Book of the Holy Trinity (1415—1419) 
sought to sweep away the erroneous doctrine that only God the 
Father and the Son are essentially one, for Mary was also born in the 
Holy Spirit, and had conceived in the Holy Spirit: “jesus mary mother 
of god he himself is she his own mother in his humanity”. In countless 
variations, Ulmannus worked his way through the trinitary relation- 
ships of father, mother and son. The son represents the spirit (Mer- 
cury), the father the soul (Sol) and the virgin mother the body (Luna). 
She is the divine matrix, the great mystery from which all being 
springs. “If she dissolves, it is to give male nature (...), and when she 
congeals, it is to take on a female body.” 

Ulmannus described Mary as the “mirror of the Holy Trinity”. 
Later, Bohme used the same image in reference to Sophia: she is “the 
exhaled force” or “what is found of the eternal Nothing, in which 
father, son and spirit are seen”. (Von der Gnadenwahl, 1623) 

This higher trinity of body, spirit and soul is joined by the four 
Evangelists, as the four sublimated elements. Luke, the bull, is fire 
(Mars), Matthew the angel, is water (Venus), John, the eagle, is earth 
(Saturn) and Mark, the lion, is air Jupiter). In Ulmannus’ system 
these correspond to the seven metals, the seven wounds of Christ, 
the seven virtues, colours, days of the week and times of day. 

Particularly interesting is the large shield with the black double- 
headed eagle dedicated to the Emperor Frederick. Ulmannus called 
this shield the “a mirror of the Holy Trinity”. It is an allegory of subli- 
mation in the Work and the lapis. The black eagle symbolizes the 
saturnine putrefaction and the two heads refer to the twofold aspect 
of bodily existence: outward-material and inward-sublime. It is the 
earthly cross on which the Christ-Lapis raises humanity. John, to 
whom the black beast is assigned here, was, like Saturn, the patron 
saint of alchemists. 


Opus Macnum: Trinity 


Opus Macnum: Trinity 


Trinity 


Buch der Heiligen 
Dreifaltigkeit, early 
15th century 


389 


Fire 


“Three are the 
substances that 
give each thing its 
Corpus,” said 
Paracelsus. He ex- 
plained them with 
reference to the 
example of wood: 
“What burns is 
sulphur (...) what 
smokes is Mer- 
curius (...) what 
becomes ashes is 
Sal.” Salis the 
physical sediment, 
the corpse. Here 
Sulphur (cloud) is, 
unconventionally, 
feminine, and 
quicksilver (fish) is 
masculine. 


O. Croll, Chymisch 
Kleinod, Frankfurt, 
1647 


Beneath the rain- 
bow, which shows 
slowly drying mat- 
ter, the secret salt- 
fire, in the figure 
of the bishop, con- 
joins the moist 
Mercury Queen 
with the dry Sul- 
phur King. Beside 
them, Neptune 
prepares the mer- 
curial marriage 
bath. 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


390 


7 


| 
i 
H 

i 
j 

i 
i 
| 
i 
i 
os 
1 
i 
| 
| 
i 
| 
; 
1 
i 
k, 
; 
| 


Opus Macnum: Fire 


Opus Macnum: Fire 


Fire 


Allegorical 
representation of 
salt: 


Jupiter, at the 
centre of the 
group, points to 
the “central fire” 
in which the 
“secret salt of 
nature” has its 
centre. 

(Elias Artista) 


Neptune points to 
the tartar, which 
plays a part in the 
preparation of 
“our salt”. “The 
salts are key; 

they open the box 
wherein the treas- 
ure lies.” (Basil 
Valentine) That it 
is Pluto, the god 
of the underworld, 
who holds this 
key, refers to the 
idea that salts 
come from the 
ashes of death, 
and play the role 
of catalyst in the 
black phase of 
putrefaction. 


8. Coenders van 


Helpen, Escalier 
des sages, 7689 


391 


Fire 


“Give fire to 
fire/Mercurius to 
Mercurio/and it is 
enough.” 


392 


Like attracts like. For Maier, the whole 
world depended on this chain of attrac- 
tion. But there are “many and varied 
species of fire and Mercurii”: 


Just as there is an inner fire which is set in 
motion by the outer fire, and which then 

unfolds its diverse effects, there is a hid- 
den, extremely subtle mercury, the “May 


Opus Macnum: Fire 


dew” which is won through distillation 
from the outer mercury. 


The whole Work consists of the interplay 
between the two opposed principles: mer- 
cury-water provides the matter, sulphur- 
fire provides the form. 


M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 


urn fl 


Hermelis 


thu 


Lu 


Opus Macnum: Fire 


Fire 


The seventh key of Basil Valentine is an 
allegory of the regulation of fire (sword 
and scales). One must, above all, ensure 
that the phial is hermetically sealed to 
prevent the escape of the spiritual water, 
which is inscribed here as a fiery triangle 
within the salt square. 


The “philosophers’ salt” is obtained by 
removing the fixing sulphur from the phys- 
ical salt, and thus turning its innermost 
outwards. 


D. Stolcius von Stolcenberg, Viridarium 
chymicum, Frankfurt, 1624 


Half of the art lies in the discovery of the 
fire, said Arnald de Villanova in the Rosa- 
rium. The regulation occurs according to 
the colours in the Work and the seasons. 
In the spring, in Aries, a powerful fire 

is used to calcinate the metals, in the 
summer, in the sign of Cancer, a gentle one 
for dissolution, in autumn, in Libra, a 
medium fire for sublimation and in the 
saturnine, Capricorn phase of Putrefaction 
and Fermentation a constant lukewarm 
horse-dung heat. 


D. Stolcius von Stolcenberg, Viridarium 
chymicum, Frankfurt, 1624 


393 


Fire 


According to 
Paracelsus, the 
salamander lives in 
fire, but notin 
dark, material fire, 
but rather in the 
essential ‘spirit- 
fire of nature’. 


394 


“Salamander comes from sal, salt, and 
from mandra, which means table, but also 
cave, lair (...). Lying on the straw of a crib 
in the grotto of Bethlehem, is not JESUS 
himself the new sun, which brings the light 
of the earth (...) this spiritual fire, which 
has been made flesh and assumed form in 
salt.” (Fulcanelli, Les Demeures Philoso- 
phaes, Paris, 1930) 


“All matter can be brought back to a salt 
form. It is the world of God made material; 
in the specialized salt is a heavenly agent, 
ason of the divine fire of the sun is united 
with a passive earthliness into a salt in- 
carnation (...) True alchemy is “Halchimia’, 


Opus Macnum: Fire 


salt-cooking (Greek ‘hal’, salt and ‘chyo’, 
| cook).” 


(M. Retschlag, “Von der Urmaterie”, 1926, 
quoted in: Bernus, Das Geheimnis der 
Adepten, Sersheim, 1956) 


Jacob Bohme called the “secret fire” the 
“fire-crack” or “schrack”, the lightning 
that “originates in the heavenly salitter”. 
Inwardly, this salitter or secret saltpetre 
is “the seed of the entire godhead”, and 
outwardly the roots of all material forces. 


M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 


Opus Macnum: Fire 


Fire 


Blake’s visions 
were diverse and 
open to all kinds 
of associations. 


The burning figure 
signifies Rintrah, 
the personifica- 
tion of just wrath, 
but also Satan, 
egoism or Orc, the 
red demon of 
revolution. But it 
may also be an 
earthly figure, 
consumed in the 
fire of life from 
the view of two 
Eternals: “Life was 
(...) for Paracelsus 
a process of 
combustion. ‘If | 
say | cannot burn, 
it is as much as if | 
said, | cannot live 
(...)”. (W. Pagel, 
Paracelsus and the 
Neoplatonic and 
Gnostic Tradition, 
Cambridge, 1960) 


W. Blake, Milton, 
1804-1808 


395 


Philosophical 
egg 


“Take the egg and 
strike it witha 
glowing sword.” 


396 


») 


Maier tells of a bird that is higher than the 
others. Its egg must be found and then 
carefully burned with a glowing sword. 

If Mars comes to the help of Vulcan, a bird 
will emerge which can vanquish fire and 
iron. 


The sword signifies the inner fire, the 
“Archaeus Naturae”, which is driven and 


fired by the outer, martial fire of the oven. 


The sword is used as asymbol “because 


Opus Macnum: Philosophical egg 


fire also makes everything porous and full 
of holes, so that water can penetrate, 
dissolve and make the hard soft”. 


The egg is the chaotic prima materia which 
is destroyed in the Putrefaction, so that 
new life arises from it. “After death we too 
enter a much more perfect life.” 


M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 


The eggshell signi- 
fies mankind’s lim- 
ited field of vision, 
“an immense/ 
Hardened shadow 
of all things upon 
our vegetated 
Earth,/ enlarged 
into dimension 
and deformed into 
indefinite space”. 
(W. Blake, Milton, 
1804) After his 
death, man tears 
this “veil of na- 
ture” which 
freezes all life. 


W. Blake, The Gates 
of Paradise, 1793 


Opus Macnum: Philosophical egg 


uy 

MIAN 
Hay 
ny 


= 


ff 


Philosophical 
egg 


When the mortal 
Castor is killed, 
Pollux, the immor- 
tal one of the two 
twin sons of Leda, 
also opts fora 
transitory life to 
remain united with 
his brother. From 
now on they spend 
one day in heaven 
with the gods and 
one in the under- 
world. 


G. Stengelius, Ova 
Paschalia Sacro 
Emblemata, 
Ingolstadt, 1672 


397 


Philosophical 
egg 


398 


In the Aurora consurgens a passage is 
quoted from the Turba philosophorum, an 
Arab compilation of Greek alchemical 
treatises and doctrines which circulated in 
western Europe from the 13th century 
onwards, and became one of the funda- 
mental works of European alchemy. 

The art, the text has it, is comparable to 
the egg, “ in which four (things) are 
connected. Its outer shell is the earth, and 
its white is water; but the very fine mem- 


Opus Macnum: Philosophical egg 


brane attached to the shell (...) is air(...). 
Further, its yolk is fire”. (Turba philosopho- 
rum, Ed. J. Ruska, Berlin, 1931) The fifth 


element or quintessence is the young chick. 


Alchemists compared the embryonic cen- 
tre of the yolk from which the chick devel- 
ops with the rising sun and the lapis. They 
called it the “red point of the sun in the 
centre”. 


Aurora consurgens, early 16th century 


Opus Macnum: Philosophical egg 


Philosophical 
egg 


“The sun needs 
the moon, like the 
cock the hen.” 


The cock, as the 
sun-animal, em- 
bodies the power 
of sulphur, said 
Maier. The egg 
from which the 
pair have hatched 
is called Latona, 
after the mother 
of Apollo and 
Diana. “For the 
philosophers (...) 
Sol, Luna and 
Latona are one, 
like cock and hen, 
because they 
hatched from an 
egg and leave 
eggs behind 
them.” 


M. Maier, 
Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


The lapis is the ‘philosophers’ egg’, a “clar- 
ified body with the gift of immortality, 
which (...) has risen above the four ele- 
ments into the purest centre as the fifth 
being of the whole nature, and is now 
much more splendid than his great par- 
ents, the sun and the moon”. (L.C.S., Drei 
geheime Traktatlein, Mainz, 1749) 


D. Stolcius von Stolcenberg, Viridarium 
chymicum, Frankfurt, 1624 


399 


Philosophical 
egg 


The materia prima: 
“The egg of nature 
they call me, 
known to all the 
philosophers (...) 
Quicksilver or 
Mercury fine lam 
called in general 

(...) An old dragon, 
an old man, lam 
everywhere near 
and far (...) 1 fly 
away, unless/one 
binds me with 
moasure./| have 
much of form, 
colour and shape/I 
carry inme the 
force of men and 
women." (Theoria 
Philosophiae Her- 
meoticae, Hanover, 
1017) 


Hoinrich Jams- 


thaler, Viatorum 
spagyricum, 1625 


400 


q 


——— 
——— 
——— 
—_ 
_———— 
—— 
SS 
——— 
= 
= 
— 
—= 
——— 
——} 
——S 
—— 
= 
S> 
== 
——| 
——_ 
—— 
—— 
ee 
——— 
_—— 
—__ 
SS 


Opus Macnum: Philosophical egg 


Opus Macnum: Philosophical egg 


Philosophical 
egg 


The rebis, which 
appears here in 
the three main 
colours of the 
work, is the “two 
bodies of art, 
namely sun and 
moon (...) Man and 
woman and they 
give birth to four 
children”. Those 
are the four ele- 
ments that the 
androgynous 
being holds in his 
right hand. In the 
centre is a mirror 
that presents the 
Opus or the prima 
materia in which, it 
is said, one cansee 
the whole world. 


The egg that he 
holds in his other 
hand is supposed 
to show how, from 
the four elements 
- the shell, the 
white, the mem- 
brane and the yolk 
~ the quintessence 
arises at the cen- 
tre: the young 
chick or the lapis. 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 

76th century 


4o1 


Philosophical 
egg 


Philosophical 
egg 


Await the star (of 
David), call Mary. 


G. Stengelius, Ova 
Paschalia Sacro 
Emblemata, Ingol- 
stadt, 1672 


ith ant 
Rene 
. hid 


pater, 


“The egg pre- 
serves life and be- 


“Mercury is cold and moist, white in its This inner heat is the ‘hidden sulphur’, ing,” says Paracel- 
appearance and cold in its moisture, but whose glyph Mercury holds in his left sus. “(...) there- 
deep within (...) it is red, which is hot and hand. The snake’s egg symbolizes the eter- fore know that air 
dry. Hence the old masters called it an nal circulation in the Work. is nothing other 
egg”. J. 1. Hollandus, Die Hand der Philo- than chaos, and 
sophen, Vienna, 1746) Speculum veritatis, 17th century chaos nothing but 


the white of an 
egg, and the egg 
is heaven and 
earth.” (Para- 
granum II, 1530) 


Detail from 
H. Bosch, Garden 
of Delights, c. 1510 


402 Opus Macnum: Philosophical egg Opus Macnum: Philosophical egg 


Matrix Matrix 


"Mirror of all 
nature and symbol 


404 


In this illustration, Fludd followed the in- 
terpretation of Genesis in the first book of 
the Zohar, which provides a highly visual 
description of the way in which, in the 
concealed depths of the divine unground, 
the En-Soph, first forms a fog, from which 
a spring then erupts. In this, the primal 
point, called “Reshith”, lights up, the 
beginning, “the first word of the creation 


Opus Macnum: Matrix 


of all things”. The Cabalists identified this 
primal point as the wisdom of God, his 
“Sophia”. It corresponds to the second 
Sefira Chochma or Hochma. The seed of all 
things lies folded into it. “He created all 
forms in it, carved into it all its character- 
istics.” 


R. Fludd, Philosophia Sacra, Frankfurt, 1626 


lhe “Golden Chain of Homer”, which Fludd 
identified as the “Invisible Fire”, leads 
from the hand of God via Virgin Nature to 
the Ape of Art. This represents the 
intellectual and technical abilities with 
which man imitates nature and seeks to 
improve it. 


Nature, the nursing mother of all things, 
connects the divine fiery heaven, the 
astral, ethereal heaven and the sublunary, 
elemental world. She is the “soul of the 
world”, the mediator between the divine 


Opus Macnum: Matrix 


of art.” 


spirit and material expression. “On her 
breast is the true sun, on her belly is 

the moon.” Her heart gives the stars their 
light, and her womb, the spirit of the 
moon, is the filter through which the astral 
influences reach the earth. “Her right 

foot stands on the earth, her left foot in 
the water, thus showing the connection 
between Sulphur and Mercury, without 
which nothing can be created.” 


Robert Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


405 


Matrix 


Wisdom is the fe- 
male emanation 
of God, through 
which his spiritual 
seed is realized, 
first in the uttered 
word of heavenly 
Sophia, then in 
matter through 
the womb of 
Nature. The latter 
is the fallen, lower 
Sophia, and is 
identified with 
Mercury, the root 
of all metals. 


From her two 
breasts flows the 
red, sulphurous 
“sweat of the 
sun”, and the 
white Mercurial 
“Virgin's milk”, 
which together 
produce the fruit 
of her womb, the 
tincture. Anyone 
who wants to see 
her naked should 
“seek the friend- 
ship of Archaeo, 
the trusted door- 
keeper”. 


Geheime Figuren 


der Rosenkreuzer, 
Altona, 1785 


406 


The Heavenly and Earthly Eve, Mother of all Creatures in Heaven and, oni Barth: 


The Star of the Kings from the Orient. 


God is an eternal unoreated, infiuite, 
supernatural, selfeustalning, heavenly 
and existing ‘spirit who hath become 
fa the course of nature and time a 
visthle, bodily, mortal man, 


OCULUS DIVINUS 
per quem Deus widit & creavit 
omit. 
Everything bath its end? aid 
annonces Hs beginning, 
LUMEN GUWATIAR, ENGON 
sunt dap 
Heavenly Eve, 
Tho New Birth, 
BY 0. Mane O, Mar, wee haw Gost, 
J th Word hath become wan, oF gai 
ei 


‘i 
Micnocosmusy 
et quogue Csi 


Innocent I recoived, Damme ix 
fe, whe dath not betiews, 


TINGCTURA COR 
$8. Sucramenta. 


ROSA CRUCIS 
VENITE. 
VIDMTE. VIDETE, VIDETE. 
Whoever hath eyes tn see, can art 
will sen cightly. ~ 


Seek the frlendahip of Ru (‘x 
Archaea, the confidant ya oe 
doarkeeper, 


{op 
aay Wad Pe 
Tomi Gone waa Philoipby “ 

7 EAGLES 


te Merhiien Auta 


Tknow it and thereon 
) Ustondl 
sult sunt Yooatt 


SOPLTSTA 
O! Harpocrates, 


* Dorninus providebit 


Opus Macnum: Matrix 


J PMS 
fi 


Nature ix a created, matural, (imely, 
Avfinite, spiritual, existing and bodily 
Spirit, on image, likeness and shadow, 
fashioned after the uncreated eternal 
spirit, hiddew and, yet visible 


OCULUS NATURAE 
sive Coeli, per queny Natur yisitat 
& regit terreno omnia, 
Lively, mortal, effective, perish- 
able and te he reborr again, 

LUMEN NATORAE,. PARERGON 

FRATRES. 
Earthly Eve, 
The Old Birth. 

O, Man, 0, Mon, bethink thee haw 
Nature is @ great world, aid hath: 
become man, = 

Tnnecenty! give back, Boxpine 7 
not (0 Thing own shame, 


TINCTURA PHYSIC 
Virgia's mith sod wweat of Sitn is 
mother of six children oyd a puro 

Sviegin. ays oa 
PHILOSOPHORUM’ 
 NVENITE, 
CADRIGHTES ARRIGITE, wares. 
Whoever hath ears fo bear, stil! 
E psiot be called typ too Fouttty, 


£6 ss is 
con * for bo hath sworn alle. 


“y glance to natures and is §- 


want, 


PEE cm. wonder-bied 


ON Phoenix with it 
aes 


G three. eggs, the 
Oey f first ie full of air, 


97 the second bath | 


oe owrakes 2 = two yolks, in the 
PRACTICA third o young 
‘cook pecks. 
* \ G, not foo much, Useratch my 
head quite frightened, 
pauci vero efecti: 


Roe MAGUS a c 
WEE Ly this one time and never again! 


Exitus acta probabit. — 


Opus Macnum: Matrix 


Matrix 


The tree growing 
out of the Mercur- 
ial virgin mother, 
which bears “in- 
effable fruits of 
diverse effect’ 
“comes from the 
seed of man (birds 
on the left) and 

of women (bird to 
the right)”. The 
honouring of 
Sophia as the mys- 
tical bride of the 
philosophers or 
‘mistress of the 
inner world’, as 
Georg von Welling 
called her, often 
intersects with 
worship of the 
divine Mercurial 
water. Mercury is 
called ‘our dear 
virgin’, because, 
like Mary, he con- 
ceives the ‘solu- 
tion of heaven’, 
and then brings it 
forth as a cleansed 
lapis. : 


Hieronymus 


Reussner, Pandora, 
Basle, 1582 


407 


Matrix 


Nature advises the 
“aimlessly wan- 
dering alchemist” 
to leave the nar- 
row circle of 
mechanical labor- 
atory chymistry: 
“You will never 
attain knowledge 
of anything if you 
come not to my 
forge.” This forge 
is the tree that 
grows from the 
three roots Miner- 
alia, Vegetativa 
and Sensitiva. 
Here, the earthly 
germ of all metals, 
animals and plants 
is separated by 
lengthy cooking 
into the four 
elements, and 
sublimated into 
the uppermost 
blossom of the 
elixir or the 
“vegetable gold”. 


Alchemy follows 
the work of na- 
ture, but tries to 
shorten the ripen- 
ing process. 


Miniature painting 
by Jehan Perréal, 
painter at the court 
of Margaretha of 
Austria, 1516 


408 


Matrix 


“Let nature be thy 


guide.” 


Opus Macnum: Matrix 


The alchemists’ attitude towards nature 
was an ambivalent one. They all wanted to 
follow her, some as her ape, trying to emu- 
late her work in all its parts, “for what is 
made outside the limitations of nature is 
either an error or something very close”. 

(J. d’Espagnet, Das Geheime Werk) “Nature 
cannot be braked or forced (...) far from it! 
She rules over us, not we over her”. 
(Heinrich Khunrath) 


Others desire her fruits, “but they des- 
pised nature itself and corrupted her (...) 
| was in their hands, to an extent sub- 
jected to their violence”, Nature laments, 
“but they knew me not.” (T. Vaughan) 


Opus Macnum: Matrix 


M. Maier, 
Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


Paracelsus stated that alchemy must per- 
fect imperfect nature, for it is “so subtle 
and sharp in its things that without great 
art it will not be used”. (Paragranum, 1530) 


Anyone who wishes to do laboratory work, 
according to Michael Maier, must bring 
four things beneath one heading: nature, 
reason, experience and the study of the 
many, specialist writings. He calls them the 
four wheels of the philosophical chariot. 
The footprints of nature are the pioneers, 
reason the walking-stick, experience the 
spectacles and the study of the writings 
the lantern “which opens the understand- 
ing and gives the keen reader a light.” 


409 


Matrix 


410 


according to Fulcanelli, represent themes 
from alchemy. According to Victor Hugo, 
the cathedral as a whole represents the 
most satisfying summation of Hermetic 
science; it is its Mute Book in stone. 


The figure of the woman is the embodi- 
ment of alchemy, touching heaven with 
her head. The two books in her right hand 
refer to the exoteric, open side and the 
esoteric, hidden side of alchemistic teach- 
ing. The ladder is a hieroglyph of the 
patience required for the Work. The nine 
steps presumably derive from the teach- 
ings of the Pseudo- Dionysius Areopagita. 


Fulcanelli, Le Mystére des Cathédrales, 
The main portal of the Cathedral of Notre Paris, 1964 
Dame in Paris bears a sequence of twelve 
late 13th-century half-reliefs, all of which, 


For the German poet Conrad Celtis (1459-1508) Philosophia signified 
the universality of all spheres of nature and the spirit. 

On the obelisk before the lap of Sophia in the depiction that 
Albrecht Diirer made for his friend Celtis, there are a total of nine 
steps reaching up to her bosom, including the seven Liberal Arts. At 
the bottom is grammar, at the top, music, the all-embracing theory 
of the harmonic laws. The Greek letter Phi acts as the foundation of 
the arts. According to the theory of Dieter Wuttke, author of a de- 
tailed study of this woodcut (Dieter Wuttke, ‘Humanismus als inte- 
grative Kraft’, in: Dazwischen, Baden-Baden, 1995), it stands for the 
vita philargica, “sensual life (as) the natural, first stage of every 
human being”, while the concluding sign theta refers to the vita theo- 
rica, the highest level of pure contemplation. 

The three books in Sophia’s hand stand for the three areas into 
which philosophy is divided according to Plato: rationalis, moralis 
and naturalis. The five nail-points on the cover of the book refer to 
the five senses as the basis of all experience. The wreath surrounding 
the throne symbolizes the four seasons. To these are assigned the 
four outermost heads: the four winds, elements, temperaments and 
ages. The four medals on the wreath represent the stages of the his- 
tory of philosophy. Ptolemy, in the upper medallion, represents its 
Egyptian-Chaldean origin in the sphere of astronomy. The right-hand 


Opus Macnum: Matrix 


Inscription, top: 
Batae S: “The Greeks call 
Sanguine? me Sophia, the 

, & Romans Sapientia. 

The Egyptians and 

Chaldaeans in- 

vented me, the 

Greeks wrote me 

down, the Romans 

handed me down, 
the Germans 
expanded me.” 


Inscription, bot- 
tom: “That which 
constitutes the 
essence of heaven, 
earth, air and wa- 
ter, and that which 
embraces the life 
of man, as well as 
that which the 
fiery God creates 
in the whole 
world: |, Philo- 
sophia, bear all in 
my breast.” 


Woodcut from the 


Amores’ of Conrad 
Oe Celtis, Albrecht 
xP er Direr, Nuremberg, 
P23 Quirequichnbumanrs eebusdeesse pores" RES 1502 
20a. Eordeusm revo quicquid faarrigneus orhe af 
= Philosophtames pectorecuncta geno a 


medal shows the Greek Plato, who interpreted the hieroglyphic wis- 
doms of the Egyptians and handed them down to the Romans. Cicero 
and Virgil worked on the poetic form of philosophy and the Ger- 
mans, represented by Albertus, on its continuation. Albertus refers 
primarily to Albertus Magnus (1193-1280), the scholastic scholar and 
student of nature, to whom a series of alchemical treatises have been 
attributed. In Wuttke’s view, though, it also refers to Albrecht Diirer, 
whom Celtis celebrated as a new Albertus, because he added the 
spheres of painting and art theory to Philosophia. 


Opus Macnum: Matrix 


Matrix 


411 


Matrix 


The title plate to 
Kircher’s Ars 
magna sciendi 
(1669) is clearly 
derived from 
Diirer’s ‘Philo- 
sophia’. Even the 
inscription on the 
plinth of Sophia’s 
throne is entirely 
in the spirit of 
Conrad Celtis’ con- 
cept of education: 
“Nothing is more 
sublime than 
knowing every- 
thing”. 


In her hand she 
holds the alphabet 
of the Lullian art, 
whose twenty- 
seven hieroglyphic 
keys are supposed 
to contain the 
whole of human 
knowledge. The 
fifteen individual 
commandments of 
knowledge that 
Kircher seeks to 
bring together 
through the mech- 
anized logic of 
Lullus are written 
on the title sash. 


A. Kircher, Ars 


magna sciendi, 
Amsterdam, 1669 


4i2 


St? emia of 
s ite beter, 


MN BE 


Opus Macnum: Matrix 


Sciintisramgac eggnitionen bravi Basin 


tits enteue gift baie fend igfrene 


Salvatore Settis has revealed a layer of 
meaning in Giorgione’s famous painting, 
in which the mysterious scenery points, 
as an allegory, to the situation of the first 
human couple after the Fall, now realizing 
that they are exposed to the storm of di- 
vine anger. (Giorgione’s “Gewitter’, Berlin 
edition, 1982) 


The two broken columns from Solomon’s 
temple, representing steadiness and 


Opus Macnum: Matrix 


strength (Jachin and Boas), refer to the 
curse of mortality. 


But in the striking similarity of the suckling 
mother-figure to the representations of 
Sophia in hermetic literature, Giorgione 
also suggests the possibility of an ascen- 
sion from this nigredo state of earthly 
existence. 


Giorgione, La Tempesta, c. 1506, Venice, 
Accademia 


Matrix 


413 


Matrix 


414 


“Make Lato white and tear up your books, 
lest it tear up your hearts.” 


Lato is generally used as a term for brass 
and other copper alloys, but it is also a 
commonly-used code name for matter 
after the phase of decay, when it is im- 
pregnated by Jupiter, the first strip of sil- 
ver in the night sky of the nigredo, and 
slowly begins to dry. Then it becomes La- 
tona, the mother of the twins Diana-Moon 
(white stone) and Apollo-Sun (red stone). 
After its complete purification or whiten- 


Opus Macnum: Matrix 


ing by fire, Azoth or sodium salt, it brings 
both into the world in sequence. 


In this phase of whitening one should tear 
up the books, most of which, as Maier 
said, are so full of “obscure sayings (...) 
that the author himself can hardly under- 
stand them”. We need these no longer, 
because what follows is “pure child’s play 
and women’s work”. 


M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 


Hiecause Actaeon the hunter has seen the 
proud virgin Diana naked while bathing, 
«he turns him into a deer, and he is then 
torn to pieces by his own bloodhounds. 


Giordano Bruno interprets this legend in 
his last work Of the heroic passions (1585) 
4s a parable of the drama of the process of 
knowledge. 


Here Actaeon represents the intellect, on 
the hunt for divine wisdom at the moment 
of grasping divine beauty.” Just when 
he thinks he grasps Sophia in the glass of 
outer nature, and lifts the veil from her 
lunar mystery, he himself becomes the 
victim or object of his own striving. “He 


Opus Macnum: Matrix 


saw himself transformed into that which 
he sought, and realized that he himself 
had become a much-desired prey for his 
hounds, his thoughts. Because he had 
actually drawn the godhead into himself, 
it was no longer necessary to seek them 
outside himself.” 


Actaeon is Bruno’s new heroic man who, 
killed by his many large hounds, is radic- 
ally inverted. “Here, his life in the mad, 
sensuous, blind and fantastic world comes 
to an end, and from now on he leads a 
spiritual life. He lives the life of the gods.” 


Titian, Diana and Actaeon, 1559 


Matrix 


415 


Fountain 


Rabbi Abraham 
Eleazar, the mys- 
terious teacher 
of Nicolas Flamel, 
is standing ona 
church-like 
athanor with the 
glyph of the pri- 
material antimony 
at its tip. The 
stream at the bot- 
tom symbolizes 


Fountain 


Inscription: 
“Wan(n) ausse(n) 
ist uns(er) Ster(n): 
also geschaffen 
feureg(er) nattur” 
(When our star is 
out: then created 
of fiery nature) 


(Deciphered 
thanks to Herr 
Reiner Reisinger.) 


the long but not 
dangerous “moist 
way”, which 
passes through 
many distillations. 
The upper, short 
path of the quick 
weasel is the dan- 
gerous, dry path 
of the secret salt- 
fire, in which salt- 
petre plays an 
important part. 


= 


A. Eleazar, Uraltes 
chymisches Werk, 
Leipzig, 1760 


SS 


Sees 


a8 


The two-headed dragon-fountain symbol- “Everything has come from the Sun, 

izes the bipolar essence of the Mercurial everything must become the Sun again”. 
lapis, which Ulmannus called the “water of We receive “this outer fiery sun to our 
modesty” or “stone clear white and red”. flesh and blood”. But the inner sun is the 
Red is Sol, blood, male, and white is Luna, soul or “red sky at morning”. This attracts 
flesh and female. the fire of the outer sun and leads it into 


the intestines. 


All things are, by their first and most 
perfect quality, created from the fire of Buch der Heiligen Dreifaltigkeit, 


the sun, which represents God the Father. early 15th century 


416 Opus Macnum: i 
GNUM: Fountain Opus Macnum: Fountain 417 


Fountain 


Death and corrup- 
tion are the key to 
higher life, the 
fundament and 
the source of the 
whole Work. After 
the moisture has 
been drained from 
the dead body, 
“each ‘thing’ 
needs fire (Sagit- 
tarius), until the 
‘spirit’ of that 
‘body’ is trans- 
formed and left 
for a number of 
nights, like manin 
his grave, and 
turns to dust. 
After this has hap- 
pened, God will 
give him back his 
soul and his spirit 
(...) and improved 
after their de- 
struction, just as 
man, after his 
resurrection, be- 
comes stronger 
and younger than 
he was in this 
world.” (Turba 
philosophorum, 
Ed. J. Ruska, 
Berlin, 1931) 


Aries, Leo and 
Sagittarius mark 
the periods of 
time in which the 
three operations 
of the Work take 
place. 


De Alchimia, 
Leyden, 1526 


418 


Opus Macnum: Fountain 


Opus Macnum: Fountain 


Fountain 


The half-bow that 
God placed in the 
clouds as a sign 
of reconciliation 
after the Flood, is 
closed by the 
blood of Christ 
into the roundness 
of the lapis. And 
he took the cup 
(...) saying, “Drink 
from it all of you. 
For this is my 
blood, the blood 
of the covenant.” 
Matthew 26, 
27-28) Through his 
sacrificial death he 
had the power 
to draw all base 
metals to himself 
and thus to enable 
them to escape 
the Flood of the 
Putrefaction (“and 
there was no more 
sea” Rev. 21, 1) into 
the newly opened 
Paradise. Here lies 
the “stream of 
living water”: the 
three-in-one tinc- 
tural power-spring 
of eternal life. 


S. Michelspacher, 


Cabala, Augsburg, 
1616 


419 


Christ-Lapis 


“After my great 
suffering and tor- 
ture/| am risen, 
clarified, and im- 
maculate.” 


“Thy stone, 
Chymist, is noth- 
ing; thé corner- 
stone that | mean/ 
is my gold tincture 
and the stone of 
all the philo- 
sophers.” (Angelus 
Silesius, Cheru- 
binischer Wanders- 
mann, 1657) 


Rosarium 
Philosophorum, 
1550 


420 


Opus Macnum: Christ-Lapis 


!n 1638, the Silesian student of Bohme, 
Abraham von Franckenberg (1598-1652) 
wrote that he wanted to learn Hebrew 
‘to use it fruitfully in my meditations, 
which are to some extent aimed at geo- 
metrical and arithmetical demonstra- 
tions”. (Quoted in: W.E. Peuckert, Das 
Rosenkreuz, Berlin edition, 1973) 


His book Raphael oder Arzt-Engel, which 
he completed in the same year, reveals his 
preoccupation with Cabalistic combina- 
tions of letters (Gematrie and Temurah). 
Like Giordano Bruno, whose writings he 
knew, Franckenberg was concerned with 
the production of magic seals, which he 


Opus Macnum: Christ-Lapis 


believed to have healing powers. In his 
view, all illnesses are based on false, self- 
centred imaginings, which poison the 
astral body (the “mummy”), and thus 
pollute the blood. The whole balance of 
the elements in the body is thereby finally 
destroyed. 


Three kinds of medicine were available: 
the Cabbalistic, from the spirit and the 
word of Christ, the magical in the medita- 
tion of the healing serpent, and the 
Chymical, with wine and oil. 


A. von Franckenberg, Raphael oder Arzt- 
Engel, 1639 (reprinted, 1925) 


Christ-Lapis 


421 


Christ-Lapis 


Mary and Jesus are 
one substance 
which is embodied 
in a condensed, 
solid state by the 
mother, and ina 
dissolved, spiritual 
state by the son. 
The sun symbol- 
izes God the 
Father and the 
twelve stars the 
elements in the 
three forms of 
appearance, “of 
the spirit (son), of 
the soul (father) 
and of the corpse 
(mother)”. In the 
five-part “lily blue 
saturn luna (...) is 
our Lord martyr”. 


The seven planets, 
metals and virtues 
are assigned to his 
extremities, his 
body and the 
wound in his side. 


Buch der Heiligen 


Dreifaltigkeit, early 
75th century 


422 


Opus Macnum: Christ-Lapis 


Opus Macnum: Christ-Lapis 


Christ-Lapis 


Frater Vincentius 
Koffsky, a 15th- 
century monk of a 
Danzig order of 
preachers, whose 
identity has not 
been historically 
proven, is shown 
catching the tinc- 
tural blood of the 
mercurial Christ, 
who is crucified on 
the tree of the 
seven metals. 
"Here study, 
meditate, sweat, 
work, cook and do 
not be put off by 
cooking, and there 
will open up to 
you, ahealing 
flood which 
springs from the 
heart of the son 

of the great world, 
in the face of all 
fragility of all 
material things (...) 
Now learn, natur- 
ally and artfully, 
to draw from this 
Catholic medicinal 
fountain of the 
living water and 
the oil of joy.” 

(H. Khunrath, Vom 
hylealischen Chaos, 
Frankfurt edition, 
1708) 


From: Fratris 
Vincentii Koffskhii, 
Hermetische 
Schriften, 
Nuremberg, 1786 


423 


Blood 


“There are seven kinds of ore (...) but the sistency of gold in the fire. They also say 
alchemists want to prove that there is only that they are all but one ore, because they 
one ore, namely gold: for it is perfect and all have their origin and their birth in 
the other six are on the way to perfection, quicksilver, moisture and sulphurous earth 
to becoming gold. And they say that the (...)." (“Peder Mansson, Bergbuch, 16th 
six are ill, and that the illnesses (make it century”, in: Otto Johannsen, Peder 
possible) to cleanse them in various ways, Manssons Schriften, Berlin, 1941) 
by making gold from them and giving 
them the colour, the weight and the con- La Sagesse des anciens, 18th century 

424 Opus Macnum: Blood 


E See 


Opus Macnum: Blood 


Blood 


The fiery soul in 
its natural primal 
state — represent- 
ed in the lower in- 
verted heart — lies 
“in the Father’s 
quality” in the fire 
of wrath. Through 
the sacrament of 
baptism, however, 
the name Jesus is 
revealed in the 
name Jehovah, and 
the soul receives 
the son’s fire of 
love: “The father 
baptizes with fire, 
the son with 
light.” His heav- 
enly blood trans- 
forms anger into 
love. 


Man must, in his 
imagination, com- 
pletely enter into 
Christ's sacrificial 
death, “thus there 
will grow (...) a 
true Christ, a 
grape on Christ's 
vine”. 


J. Bohme, 
Theosophische 
Wercke, 
Amsterdam, 1682 


425 


Blood 


Il. right: 
William Blake, 
Jerusalem, 
1804-1820 


426 


In the upper half of the picture Albion, fallen humanity, collapses 
exhausted in the border area between the palm of spirituality and 
the oak of materialism. “The divine sun with the name of Jesus en- 
tered Adam’s night, Adam’s sleep (...) The first Adam fell down (...) 
and died the death of death: the other Adam (Christ) took the death 
of death within himself, as if captured in Adam’‘s humanity.” (Jacob 
Bohme, De signatura rerum) 

The lower half of the picture shows Albion’s female emanation, 
Jerusalem, lying death-like in the middle of the “sea of time and 
space”. The winged “Cherub of concealment” is still holding her 
back from her marriage to the Christ-Lamb. But this Satanic shade is 
only a feeble imitation of the upper Divine Spirit-Sun. It is creative 
space-time, for which Blake used the image of a winged red blood 
corpuscle. 

According to Bohme, blood is the “tincture of eternity”, in 
which “the body ascends into the brilliance of the sun”. (J. Bohme, 
De signatura rerum) And Blake: “Every Time less than a pulsation of 
the artery/Is equal inits period & value to Six Thousand Years,/ For 
in this Period the Poet’s Work is Done; and all the Great/ Events of 
Time start forth & are conceiv’d in sucha Period,/ Withina Moment, 
a Pulsation of the Artery.” The earth is an infinite open plane, and its 
spherical form an illusion. “The Microscope knows not of this, nor 
the Telescope; they alter/The ratio of the Spectator’s Organs, but 
leave Objects untouch’d./ For every Space larger than a red Globule 
of Man’s blood/ Is visionary, and is created by the Hammer of Los;/ 
And every Space smaller than a Globule of Man’s blood opens/ Into 
Eternity of which this vegetable Earth is but a shadow.” (W. Blake, 
Milton) 

“Space: what you damn well have to see. Through spaces smaller 
than red globules of man’s blood they creepy-crawl after Blake’s 
buttocks into eternity of which this vegetable world is but a shadow. 
Hold to the now, the here, through which all future plunges to the 
past.” (James Joyce, Ulysses) 


Opus Macnum: Blood 


— 


ae 


Opus Macnum: Blood 


427 


~ MICROCOSM 


“The world is primarily the totality of everything, 
consisting of heaven and earth (...). 
In the second mystical sense, however, 
it is appropriately identified as man. 
For, as the world has grown out of four elements, 
so does man consist of four humours (...).” 
(Isidore of Seville, A.D. 560-636, De natura rerum) 


Human Form 
Divine 


430 


The magical vision of the universe of 
Agrippa von Nettesheim (1486-1535), 
which left traces in the work of Diirer, is 
influenced by the Gnostic doctrines of 
Hermes Trismegistus, which were circulat- 
ing in Marsilio Ficino’s translations. 
According to these doctrines, man was not 
only made in God's image, but also gifted 
with his omnipotence. Agrippa freed man 
from the tiered cosmos, and placed him at 
the centre of creation. “Only man enjoys 
the honour of participating in everything 
(...) He participates in matter in his own 
subject, and in the elements through 

his fourfold body; in plants through his 
vegetable strength; in animals through the 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


life of the senses; in the heavens through 
the ethereal spirit (...), in the angels 
through his wisdom; in God through the 
epitome of everything (...) and just as 

God knows everything, so man can also 
come to know everything that can be 
known (...).” (“De occulta philosophia”, in: 
Agrippa, Die magischen Werke, Wiesbaden 
edition, 1988) He can even direct the astral 
influences at his will. 


Agrippa took the geometrical figures of 
“man as the measure of the universe” from 
Vitruvius’ figures in Francesco Giorgio’s 
Exempada, to which he presumably had 
access in manuscript form. 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Human Form 
Divine 


“Man, as the most beautiful and perfect 
work of God, has a (...) more harmonic 
bodily structure than other creatures, and 
contains all numbers, measures, weights, 
movements, elements, and everything, he 
is the most sublime masterpiece, come to 
perfection (...)” There is no part of the hu- 
man body “that does not correspond toa 
sign of the zodiac, a star, an intelligence, a 
divine name in the idea of God himself. 
The whole form of the human body is 
round (...).” 


Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta 
philosophia 


“But a completely evenly formed human 
body also represents a square; for if aman 
stands upright with arms outstretched 
and feet together, he forms an even-sided 
rectangle, the centre of which is at the 
lowest part of the pubic bone.” 


Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta 
philosophia 


431 


Human Form 
Divine 


“If one draws a circle from this centre 
point over the top of the head, and lowers 
the arms until the fingertips touch the 
periphery of the circle, and the feet on 
the circumference are the same distance 
apart as the fingertips from the top of the 
head, the circle is thereby divided into 
five equal parts, and a regular pentagon 

is produced, just as the two heels form an 
equilateral triangle with the navel.” 


Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta 
philosophia 


“If, with arms raised thus, the feet and 
legs are placed so far apart that the figure 
is shortened by one fourteenth of his 
upright posture, the distance between his 
feet and from the lower part of the pubic 
bone forms an equilateral triangle, and if 
one places the centre point in the navel, 
the periphery of a circle will touch the tips 
of the fingers and toes.” 


Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta 
philosophia 


432 Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Human Form 
Divine 


“If both feet are spread to the left and 
right, with the calves facing inwards, and 
the hands are raised upwards along the 
same line, the tips of the fingers and toes 
form a perfect square, the centre of which 
is above the navel.” 


Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta 
philosophia 


“If the arms are stretched as high as 
possible above the head, the elbows are in 
the region of the head, and if a man stand- 
ing in this position, his feet remaining 
together, is placed in a perfect square 
whose opposite sides touch his soles and 
fingertips, the centre of the square will 
fall in the region of the navel, which also 
forms the centre betweeen the top of the 
head and knees.” 


Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta 
philosophia 


433 


Human Form 
Divine 


The Parmasayika 
grid is a funda- 
mental religious 
diagram which 
divides up the 
Hindu Pantheon 
according to the 
measures of the 
“purusha” of the 
cosmic primal 
man. The lotus 
grows from the 
central point of his 
navel, and from it 


CHa cus erlten 


Human Form 
Divine 


Blueprint of a basilica on the measure of a 
human figure. 


In his writings, Francesco Giorgio 
(1460-1540) linked the Pythagorean 
theory of harmony with hermetic and 
Cabalistic speculations. 


“The ancients also divided their temples, 
public buildings and the like according 
to the structure of the human body (...) 
just as he (God) himself gave the whole 
machine of the universe the symmetry of 
the human body.” 


“brahma” or the R A P.. 
vital principle of ; zs, TAC > N 


the universe. Th S (Ag ppavo Nettesheim, De occulta 
erse. e 
i 


Ro Sy philosophia) 
greatest deities NG 


are grouped Ni Sa ed 


around the centre, ee ; ay 
the lesser around ‘i 


dhe 
the edge. e ha 
ait ‘% noe : 


The diagram was 
used as aground 
plan for temple 
buildings, and also 
for the arrange- 
ments of cities, 
with the places 
of the divine hier- 
archies corres- 
ponding to the 
districts of human 
classes or castes. 
It was the archi- 


“When man stretches out crosswise, so 
that the circle touches the extremes at 
hands and feet, the centre is the navel, but 
if he puts his feet hard together (...) the 
centre is the middle in the human member. 
It was according to this measure of the hu- 
man body that Noah is supposed to have 
built his ark and Solomon his temple.” 

(A. Kircher, Musurgia universalis, 
Schwiabisch Hall edition, 1662) 


A. Kircher, Arca Noé, Amsterdam, 1675 


ie apap ls Prager tie 


tales 


tect’s task to i | aaae 
reproduce the oe ae 
human prototype , Z 
of the universe in c [i 
his constructions. 4 HH 
Poe 
oe 
Pp il 
4 Be 
RESEEee Neeaererceeey 
oe Ege Lemsnn optic 
pte angle yen sde ites wien PFSSG hooky, Ud haneadace obee BF i 


434 Microcosm: Human Form Divine Microcosm: Human Form Divine 435 


Human Form 
Divine 


Fludd’s monu- 
mental five- 
volume work, 
Utriusque Cosmi, 
was published in 
1617-1621 by the 
German publisher 
Teodor de Bry, 
probably through 
the agency of 
Michael Maier, 
who had visited 
Fludd in England 
in 1615. The 
engravings, based 
on Fludd’s de- 
tailed drawings 
were made by de 
Bry’s son-in-law 
Matthaus Merian. 


The two diagrams 
show the influ- 
ences of the 
twelve signs of the 
zodiac (top), and 
the seven planets 
(bottom) on the 
regions of the 
human body. 


436 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


~~ Utriusque Co ae aa 
AIORIS {cilicct cc MINORIS METAPYSICA , PHYSICA ~ 

i ATQVE TECHNICA ~ tte 
irl Tt SOT ORR A 


In duo Volumina fecundum COSMI differentiam diuisa. < 


I >, AVFHORE ROBERTO FLUD alias de Flubibus Armizero. 
(clegu a in Medicina Doé tore Qxonteafi Lprg, Hig 4 Wy 
95 fh -Tomus Primits . harnheni 
LEH De Macrocofnt His toria in duos trattatus dinifa 
- i H Mecaphy fic FR f 
104 3 fries lee Hence i H i 
| Tims i Phra Macrosafes 5 e 
CF corsuptione” pr. 
i Arishtaeticoam. 
Gerace: 
pants erfpectivam 
OPPENHEMH. 


hi t ton Cunesthger - 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Human Form 
Divine 


The frontpiece to 
the first volume of 
Utriusque Cosmi 
shows, in the 
outer circle, the 
Ptolemaic macro- 
cosm, whose re- 
flection in all parts 
is man. 


In the innermost 
circles are the four 
humours of man, 
corresponding to 
the elements. To 
the central, black 
circle corresponds 
the outermost 
macrocosmic 
boundary of goat- 
footed Chronos- 
Saturn, who 
unrolls the great 
universal year. 


The swastika-like 
sign on his hour- 
glass represents 
the polar forces 
that govern the 
whole universe: 
systole-sulphur 
and diastole- 
mercury, sun and 
moon of both 
cosmoi. 


Utriusque Cosmi, 


Vol. 1, Oppenheim, 
1617 


437 


Human Form 
Divine 


438 


According to the Biblical account of 
Creation, man was created on the final 
day. Welling took this as grounds to 
assume “that the most wise Creator had 
not only pulled his master stroke in man as 
the final creature, but also concentrated 
and resolved the beginning and the end of 
all creatures, that is, to allow the whole 
universe to run together and accumulate 
within this one circle.” 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


In Welling’s view, the elemental creation 
consists in the splitting or division of the 
heavenly, primal element “Shamayim” 
into fire and water and into light and dark- 
ness. Only man contains this primal ele- 
ment in its pure form “so that he himself is 
a little spark of the living deity”. 


Gregorius Anglus Sallwigt (alias von Welling), 
Opus mago-cabalisticum, Frankfurt, 1719 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Human Form 
Divine 


The last visions of 
Hildegard von 
Bingen, written 
down in 1163-1173, 
concern the in- 
volvement of man 
in the order of 
God's creation. 
The divine love of 
the son appears 
to her asa red, 
cosmic figure in 
the sky, dwarfed 
only by the good- 
ness of the Father. 
In his breast ap- 
peared the ‘Wheel 
of the World’ with 
the bright fire of 
light and the black 
fire of justice as 
the outermost 
bounds of the uni- 
verse. The twelve 
animals’ heads 
represent winds 
and virtues, which 
together produce 
the system of 
reference in which 
man can exist 

as the crown of 
creation. 


Hildegard von 
Bingen, Liber 
Diviorum Operum, 
13th century 


439 


Human Form 
Divine 


“Now you are 
Christ’s body, and 
each of you a limb 
or organ of it.” 

(1 Corinthians 

12, 27) 


“And (God) put all 
things under his 
feet, and made 
him (the Son) 

the head over all 
things in the 
church, “which 

is his body, and as 
such holds within 
it the fullness of 
him who himself 
receives the entire 
fullness of God.” 
(Eph. 1, 22-23) 


From this divine 
fullness (Pleroma) 
flows the Holy 
Spirit, the breath 
of life of the 
Church. 


The Church as the 
mystical body of 
Christ, Opinicus de 
Canistris, 1340 


440 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


a : 
: At 
: Z 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


a 
Sa 


Human Form 
Divine 


In the pre-Aryan 
Indian tradition 

of Jainism, cosmic 
man is not an 
immaterial God- 
figure, but the 
organism of the 
world itself. This 
anthropomorphic 
cosmos “never had 
a beginning and 
will never end. 
Not ‘spirit’ dis- 
tinct from ‘mat- 
ter’, but “spiritual 
matter’, ‘material- 
ized spirit’, that is 
the FIRST MAN”. 
(Heinrich Zimmer, 
Philosophie und 
Religion Indiens, 
Zurich, 1961) 


The individual's 
path of enlighten- 
ment ascends 
through the lower 
bodily regions of 
the Anthropos to 
the uppermost 
curve of his skull. 


The form and 
dimensions of 
the cosmic primal 
man, Gujarat, 
17th century 


441 


Human Form 
Divine 


442 


Blake used a number of models for the 
concept of his giant Albion. 


In BOhme’s Aurora, heaven is described as 
the interior of a human being, on the 
model of the heavenly primal man of the 
Cabbala, Adam Cadmon. In his visions, 
Swedenborg also described heaven and 
hell as anthropomorphic organisms: 
“Because God is man, the whole host of 
angels represents a single man, divided 
into regions and zones according to the 
limbs, intestines and organs of man.” Also, 
each human being is “only a small part — 


In Cabbalistic tra- 
dition, the ten 
Sephiroth that 
structure the uni- 
verse are the limbs 
of the primal man, 
Adam Cadmon. He 
is so vast that each 
of his hairs can be 
imagined asa 
stream of light 
linked to millions 
of worlds. 


Adam Cadmon is 
also identified 
with the figure 
that Ezekiel saw 
on the wheeled 
throne, and with 
the appearance of 
the ‘Ancient in 
Years’ in Daniel 
7,73. 


Jewish 
Encyclopedia 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


particula — within the Great Man, and 
there is never anything in man that does 
not have an equivalent in the Great Man”. 
(Wisdom of the Angels, Zurich, 1940) The 
limbs of Blake’s giant Albion, on the other 
hand, are assigned to the earthly topo- 
graphy of the British Isles: his right hand 
covers Wales, his elbow rests on Ireland 
and London lies between his knees. The 
protagonists in Joyce’s Finnegans Wake, 
H.C.E. and A.L.P. at one point assume 
the form of giants and occupy individual 
districts of Dublin. 


4 


3 a0 ra io 
eee INN OT 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Human Form 
Divine 


“For all are Menin 
Eternity, Rivers, 
Mountains, Cities, 
Villages / All are 
Human, & when 
you enter into 
their Bosoms you 
walk / In Heavens 
& Earths, asin 
your own Bosom 
you bear your 
Heaven / And 
Earth & all you be- 
hold; tho’ it ap- 
pears Without, it 
is Within, /In your 
Imagination, of 
which this World 
of Mortality is but 
a Shaclow.” (W. 
Blake, Jerusalem) 


“No form, no 
world had exist- 
ence before the 
form of man was 
present. For it 
includes all things, 
and everything 
that exists, only 
exists through it.” 
(Zohar) 


W. Blake, The Sun 


at its Eastern Gate, 
e.t81g 


443 


Human Form 
Divine 


444 


The “Mysterium Magnum” is the funda- 
mental duality in one God, the “ground” 
and the “unground”, “from which time and 
the visible world have flown”. In his 

title engraving, Georg Gichtel interpreted 
the one duality of microcosm/macrocosm 
and Moses/Messiah: just as Moses was the 
representative of the authoritarian aspect 
of God for the small world of the children 
of Israel, Christ is the incarnation of divine 
love for humanity as a whole. 


Microcosm: Human Forim Divine 


The trumpet-blowing angel of the end 
of time unveils the transfigured face of 
Moses, and Christ reveals himself in the 
perfect clock of the zodiac as ruler of the 
spiritual age of the lily. 


J. Bohme, Theosophische Wercke, 
Amsterdam 1682 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Human Form 
Divine 


Man is “in his out- 
ward body an ens 
(being) of the four 
elements, and in 
his outward life an 
ens of the ‘Spiritus 
Mundi’ (world 
spirit) (...)as the 
great clock (the 
zodiac) relates to 
time in which the 
figure stands, and 
the ‘Spiritus 
Mundi’ also gives 
him such a figure 
in the property of 
outward life, it 
forms him as such 
an animal in the 
outward life- 
property, for the 
‘Spiritus’ of the 
outer world of the 
elements cannot 
give other than an 
animal.” 

(J. Bohme, Von der 
Gnadenwah!) 


D.A. Freher, 

in: Works of 

J. Behmen, 

Law edition, 1764 


445 


Human Form 
Divine 


AAG 


“Now man (...) stands at the centre, 
between the realms of God and hell, 
between love and wrath; which spirit he 
makes his own, he is of it.” J. Bohme, 
Vom dreyfachen Leben) 


On the left, on the flap, we can see the 
outer man, standing with both feet in the 
abyss of the “dark world”, in “God's fire 
of wrath”. The impressions of the sidereal, 
world spirit are imprinted on his upper 
body. In Bohme’s view the outer man lives 
imprisoned by the elemental and astral 
influences that keep the portals of his 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


senses sealed. To the right is the inner man 
in the liberated state, as he lives in the 
world of light of the hidden deity. 


In alchemy, the peacock symbolizes the 
night of decay. It is also the symbolic ani- 
mal of Juno, the wife of Jupiter, who, 
along with Venus and Mercury, is among 
the three source spirits of the world of 
light. 


D.A. Freher, in: Works of J. Behmen, 
Law edition, 1764 


Uy 
YB 
“iy 


y 


Man is made of all the forces of God, of 
all seven spirits of God. (...) But because 
hie is now corrupt, the divine birth does 
not always swell within him. (...) For the 
tloly Ghost cannot be grasped and fixed in 
sinful flesh; but it ascends like a lightning 
{lash (...) But if the lightning flash is caught 
in the spring of the heart, it ascends to 
the brain in the seven source-spirits like 
the red sky at morning: and in it are pur- 
pose and knowledge.” (J. Bohme, Aurora) 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


The ascent of this “salnitric fire-crack” 
through the seven source-spirits has often 
been compared to the awakening of the 
snake-fire, the kundalini in Hindu yoga, 
which rises through the seven, delicate 
centres of the body, the chakras, above 
the head, where it ascends in pure know- 
ledge. 


D.A. Freher, in: Works of J. Behmen, 
Law edition, 1764 


Human Form 
Divine 


447 


Human Form 
Divine 


4a8 


Fludd presented the four spiritual levels of 
man in the picture of the Tetragrammaton. 
Yod, the formless seed of all things, is 
compared to the spirit or pure knowledge. 
He, the “upper palace”, is the intellect; 
Vau, “the connecting link”, the soul or the 
life-spirit. The second He or “the lower 
dwelling-place” represents the sensual 
and elemental sphere. 


The Cabala has three regions of the soul, 
although these are all contained within 
each other. The “vegetable soul”, dedic- 
ated to the sensual life, is called Nefesh. 

It passes with death. To it corresponds the 
Zelem, the so-called ethereal or astral 
body. The innermost divine spark of the 
soul is called Neshama. 


Similar ideas are familiar from Paracelsus. 
According to his theory, man, like every- 


thing else, consists of the trinity of salt, 
sulphur and mercury. Salt is the body and 
mercury the spirit. “But the centre be- 
tween spiritus and corpore (...) is the soul 
and is sulphur”. (Paracelsus, De natura re- 
rum, 1525). To it corresponds the astral 
body, which also communicates between 
spirit and body. “It was the Platonic ‘char- 
iot of the soul’. It was imagined as a ‘pneu- 
matic shell’ - on its descent it received the 
soul from the stars and their evil (...)‘ad- 
ministrators’. These are the ‘Archonte ' (...), 
in Paracelsus the ‘Archei, Vullcani’ or 
‘smiths’. The soul casts off the astral body 
like a garment when it makes the upward 
journey through the realm of the astral 
Archontes.” (Walter Pagel, Paracelsus 

als ‘Naturmystiker’, in: Epochen der Natur- 
mystic, Berlin, 1979) 


R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. Il, Frankfurt, 1621 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


a 

LE he 

_. de la. Terre , 
— de Lic 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


ZN ule Coe a 
My , ble . 
SF br Rumors. 
ue de Voree ‘ 


Human Form 
Divine 


Nobody did 
greater service to 
the dissemination 
of Bohme’s ideas 
than the Regens- 
burg writer Georg 
Gichtel (1638- 
1710), who was 
himself devoted to 
a radical Sophian 
mysticism, and 
who, in exile in 
Amsterdam, sur- 
rounded himself 
witha circle of 
celibate ‘angelic 
brothers’. In his 
Theosophia prac- 
tica (1696) he 
described how the 
wheel of the 
planets lies on the 
body in seven 
diabolical seals. 


G. Gichtel, 
Theosophia 
practica, 
1898 edition 


449 


Human Form 
Divine 


For his act of 
Creation, God 
descended three 
world octaves to 
breathe his spirit 
into man. Hence 
man’s spiritual 
capacity also takes 
in the whole span 
of the three inter- 
vals of the ladder 
of creation: ele- 
mental, celestial 
and super-celes- 
tial. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 


Cosmi, Vol. If, 
Frankfurt, 1621 


450 


me. VAG 
23 | Pea 
a ae 
PAS Sit 
ee i S| 
gh | 28! 
23.0: Bs 
0 A tas SI 
Se § Nei 
Sat ie 
Sé/ S8) 
q if a; 
cy Sy i 
iF) $e? 
RH cs AME 
t AE ge 
q: Ui) fal 


2 
x 


B. Intelleé es agers rimum Men 
j tis teyumentum Me Urhiceabuare: 
se seed leesncyann’y rites ra: 
tionals. nition, set re tap ptt 
D. Spiritus rationalis ‘sbmiAtboiee ca 
Tntelleiti in Anima media 
E.. Aninsa media ie lotice etherco natans:, 
Seu lux Vicalis cum Mente ~ 
F. Corpus receptaculam Omnsscm 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Human Form 
Divine 


Fludd called the 
human body (F) a 
“vessel of all 
things”, for, ac- 
cording to the har- 
monic diagram, it 
has the ability to 
connect with 
every region of 
the three worlds 
through various, 
subtle, spiritual 
media. 


Via the so-called 
“middle soul” (E) 
which swims in the 
ethereal sphere, 
he maintains 
contact with the 
region of the ele- 
ments. Its equival- 
ent in the Cabala is 
the vegetable soul 
Nefesh. 


Fludd calls the 
uppermost “pure 
spirit” (A) the 
“chimney to God”. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 


Cosmi Il, Frankfurt, 
1621 


451 


Human Form 
Divine 


The alchemist holding the two Masonic 
symbols of the compass and the 
set-square marks the saturnine beginning 
of the Work, which is connected with the 
dark descent into the “interior of the 
earth”. Only there, according to the 
famous VITRIOL acronym, will one find the 
philosophers’ stone. 


Here, the lapis is represented as the red 
point in the egg-yolk of the four-element 
Work, from which the quintessence, or the 
“little chick”, emerges. 


Theatrum chemicum, ed. Lazarus Zetzner, 
1667 


“In the usual way, understand man as com- 
posed out of the unity of the light of hu- 
man nature and the difference of physical 
darkness; to unfold him more precisely, 
return to the first figure (Figura paradig- 
matica). You clearly recognize three 
spheres: a lower, a middle and an upper.” 
(Nikolaus of Cusa, De coniecturis) 


R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. Il, 
Oppenheim, 1679 


452 Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Human Form 
Divine 


The equivalent in man to the three spheres 
of the Great World, with their different 
qualities, are three spiritual and physical 
levels: the sublunar elemental region is 
the sphere of the senses (lower body), the 
astral, ethereal region is the sphere of 

the soul (breast region) and the divine fire- 
heaven is the sphere of the intellect 
(head). The sun at the intersection of form 
and matter is, in the macrocosm, the seat 
of the cosmic soul. Its equivalent in man is 
the heart as the seat of the soul and the 
vital spirit (Archaeus). 


R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. II, 
Oppenheim, 1679 


The human body in the image of the con- 
flict between the two states into which 
the primal matter (Shamayim) is separated 
in the act of creation: the lower, impure 
waters, whose poisonous fumes rise from 
the lower body, and the upper, subtle 
spiritual fire. The two mingle in the breast 
region, maintaining an equilibrium in the 
region of the heart. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. Il, 
Oppenheim, 1679 


453 


Human Form 
Divine 


“In this picture we 
see the wonderful 
harmony in which 
the two extremes, 
the most precious 
and the most 
gross, are linked.” 
Fludd is referring 
to soul and body. 
The cosmic spirit 
linking the two is 
represented as the 
string of a micro- 
cosmic, mono- 
chord. At birth, 
the soul descends 
along the marked 
intervals from the 
higher spheres in 
man and in death 
it rises back along 
them. 


R. Fludd, 
Utriusque Cosmi, 
Vol. II, 
Oppenheim, 1619 


454 


Ti A rmbt igre, Plates 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


hie fries 
bro Corports Ine. difpommbos que per lineas: ad dena membres. 


Human Form 
Divine 


In this diagram of 
the correlations in 
the micro-macro- 
cosm Kircher fol- 
lowed the theories 
of correspondence 
in the Platonic and 
Hermetic tradi- 
tion, in which the 
world is described 
as a living organ- 
ism with metabolic 
processes. In the 
Musurgia univer- 
salis Kircher as- 
signed the sun to 
the heart, the 
moon to the brain, 
Jupiter to the liver, 
Saturn to the 
spleen, Venus to 
the kidneys, Mer- 
cury to the lungs 
and the earth to 
the stomach. “The 
veins signify the 
rivers, the bladder 
the sea. The seven 
major limbs signify 
the seven metallic 
bodies, the legs 
signify the quar- 
ries, the flesh sig- 
nifies the earth, 
the hair signifies 
the grass.” 


A. Kircher, Mundus 


subterreaneus, 
Amsterdam, 1682 


455 


Human Form 
Divine 


The twelve signs 
of the zodiac and 
their influence on 
the parts of the 
body: 

Aries: head, 
suprarenal glands, 
blood pressure 
Taurus: throat, 
shoulders, ears 
Gemini: lungs, 
nerves, arms, 
head, fingers 
Cancer: thorax, 
some bodily fluids 
Leo: heart, back, 
spine, spleen 
Virgo: belly, in- 
testines, gall blad- 
der, pancreas, liver 
Libra: coccyx, 
hips, kidneys, 
glands 

Scorpio: sex 
organs, pelvis, 
rectum 
Sagittarius: 
thighs, legs 
Capricorn: knees, 
bones, skin 
Aquarius: bones, 
blood vessels 
Pisces: feet, some 
bodily fluids 


Hebrew 


manuscript, 
14th century 


456 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


sr setl) 


Civ 


oO 


AIIPPAy! 


\ 


a ‘ 


ie > eri; B 
VULYE Pe th 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Human Form 
Divine 


In his illustration 
for a medical 
treatise, Tobias 
Cohn compared 
the human ana- 
tomy with a four- 
storey house. 

The four storeys 
correspond to the 
four worlds in 
which the entire 
cosmos is divided 
in the image of the 
Sephiroth tree. 


Tobias Cohn, 
Maaseh Tobiyyah, 
1707 


457 


In Scholastic tradition there are three 
chambers of the brain which work ona 
cooperative basis, and which are related 
to the Aristotelian elemental qualities. 
The front chamber of imagination, ce//ula 
phantastica, is hot and dry. Blake called it 
the “furnace of Los”, in which sensory 
information (in Blake’s mythology the 
larks, the messengers of Los) is shaped 
into glowing, visual images and etched 
into the brain. The central chamber of rea- 
son, ceflula rationalis, is warm and moist. 
Here, the minted images are brought into 
ordered contexts to create knowledge. 
The linguistic arts of grammar, dialectics 


and rhetoric were assigned to it. Heinrich 
Schipperges calls the back chamber of 
memory, ceflula memoralis, the “great 
storage room of images” (H. Schipperges, 
Die Welt des Auges, Freiburg, 1978). It is 
the archive or reservoir from which the 
central chamber draws its material for new 
chains of thought. Here are the “halls of 
Los” holding the “glowing sculptures” of 
all things that happen on earth. “Every 
age renews its powers from these works.” 
(W. Blake, Jerusalem, 1804-1820) 


G. Reisch, Pretiosa Margarita, Freiburg, 
1503 


LIBER.X, TRACIL DE POTENTiS 


a ed 

Thy frente 

eons Maid 
i cat le a 


s yt te RE wiring 


Microcosm: Brain & memory 


LD : 


ffhrrstaty a) b 


Microcosm: Brain & memory 


Brain & 
memory 


On the left, above 
the forehead, in 
Fludd’s model, 
floats the circular 
diagram of the 
world as percept- 
ible to the senses. 
It is subdivided 
into an elemental 
quinternity which 
stands in relation 
to the five senses 
of man: earth: 
touch, water: 
taste, air: smell, 
ether: hearing, 
fire: seeing. This 
“sensitive world” 
is “imagined” in 
the first brain- 
chamber, by the 
transforming 
power of the soul, 
into a shadowy du- 
plicate, and then 
transcended in 
the next chamber 
of the capacity 
for judgment and 
knowledge: 
through the keen- 
ness of the spirit 
the soul pene- 
trates to the 
divine “world of 
the intellect”. The 
last chamber is the 
centre of memory 
and movement. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 


cosmi, Vol. Il, 
Oppenheim, 1679 


459 


Brain & 
memory 


Descartes compared the creation of 
pictures of memory in the brain with the 
traces left by needles in fabric. Even Plato 
described the working of memory with 
the image of impressions in a wax block. 


From: René Descartes, Traité de I‘homme 


460 


In Classical antiquity memory was held to 
be the “mother of the muses”. As late as 
the Renaissance a series of polished tech- 
niques for the training of the memory 
were developed and handed down. They 
are all based on the notion that a basic 
repertoire of places or pictures is im- 
Pressed upon the memory ina particular 
sequence, and that this can then be associ- 
ated with random and changing images. 


Microcosm: Brain & memory 


“The art of memory is like an inner writing. 
Those who know the letters of the 
alphabet can write down what is dictated 
to them and read out what they have 
written.” (Frances A. Yates, The Art of 
Memory,‘London, 1966) 


R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Tractatus primi, 
Oppenheim, 1620 


Microcosm: Brain & memory 


x 


Brain & 
memory 


Fludd distinguishes between a round and 
a square art of memory. The round art uses 
fantastic and magically charged diagrams 
with which it seeks to draw down the 
celestial influences. The square art is the 
classical mnemonic technique, which uses 
real places and natural images. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. II, 
Oppenheim, 1679 


This mnemonic figure was used as a guide 
to impressing the Gospel according to 

St Luke. The individual hieroglyphs are 
aides-mémoires, and mark particularly 
significant passages in the Gospel. 


Sebastian Brant, Hexastichon, 1509 


461 


Signatures 


462 


According to Zedler’s Universal-Lexikon 
(Halle, 1732-1754), physiognomy is “the 
art which from the outward constitution 
of the limbs or the lineaments of a man‘s 
body reveals his nature and emotional dis- 
position”. For along time, it was part of 
the wide repertoire of the occult arts. 
Fludd included it alongside astrology and 
chiromancy among the microcosmic arts, 
and the universal scholar Giambattista 
della Porta, who founded the “Academy 
for the Study of the Secrets of Nature” in 
Naples in 1560, included it in the broad 
spectrum of the “Magia naturalis”. At the 
end of the 18th century, the writings of Jo- 
hann C. Lavater (1741-1801), building upon 
della Porta‘s Physiognomia, led to a “mania 


Microcosm: Signatures 


for physiognomics”, to which even 

Goethe succumbed. He eagerly gave his 
friend Lavater the silhouettes of his 
acquaintances. Lavater also developed 
approaches towards a physiognomics of 
criminals and races. One resolute oppo- 
nent of the “physiognomists” was the 
physicist and thinker G.C. Lichtenberg: “If 
physiognomics becomes what Lavater ex- 
pects of it, children will be hanged before 
they have committed the deeds that merit 
the gallows (...)” (Sudelbiicher, 1777), and: 
“We regularly judge from faces, and we 
are regularly wrong”. (Uber Physiognomik) 


Giambattista della Porta, De Humana 
Physiognomia, 1650 


Microcosm: Signatures 


Signatures 


According to della 
Porta, the whole 
natural world con- 
sists of anetwork 
of secret corres- 
pondences which 
can be revealed 
through analogy. 
A plant leaf in the 
shape of a set of 
deer’s antlers is 
related to the 
character of that 
animal. People 
who look like don- 
keys are stupid; 
Those who look 
like oxen are stub- 
born, lazy and 
easily irritated; 
leonine people are 
powerful, gener- 
ous and brave. 


Giambattista della 
Porta, De Humana 
Physiognomia, 
1650 


463 


Signatures 


With this meta- 
morphosis “froma 
frog's head to 
Apollo” Lavater 
was putting his 
theory of evolu- 
tion to the test: 
the more pointed 
the angle of the 
profile, the more 
lacking in reason is 
the creature. “The 
first figure is thus 
wholly frog, so 
wholly does it rep- 
resent the puffed- 
up representative 
of repellent bes- 
tiality.” With the 
tenth figure “com- 
mences the first 
step towards un- 
brutality (...) with 
the twelfth figure 
begins the lowest 
stage of humanity 
(...) the sixteenth 
head gradually 
rises towards 
reason” and “from 
this up to such 

as Newton and 
Kant’, 


1C, Lavater, 


Physiognomik, 
Vienna, 1829 


464 


Microcosm: Signatures Microcosm: Signatures 


Signatures 


Between 1819 and 
1820 Blake carried 
out spiritualist 
seances with the 
astrologer and 
landscape painter 
John Varley, pro- 
ducing “visionary 
portraits”. In 1828 
Varley described 
how the “spirit of 
a fly” appeared to 
Blake. “During the 
time occupied in 
completing the 
drawing, the fly 
told him that all 
flies were inhab- 
ited by the souls 
of such men as 
were by nature 
blood-thirsty to 
excess, and were 
therefore provi- 
dentially confined 
to the size and 
form of insects; 
otherwise, were 
he himself, for in- 
stance, the size of 
ahorse, he would 
depopulate a 
great portion of 
the country.” 


W. Blake, Spirit of a 
Fly, 1819 


465 


Signatures 


‘Metoscopy’, the 
study of the lines 
in the forehead, 
divides the human 
forehead into 
seven planetary 
zones. 


Ciro Spontoni, 


La Metoposcopia, 
Venice, 1651 


466 


“There is no thing in nature created or born that does not reveal its 
inner form outwardly as well, for the internal always works towards 
revelation (...) as we can see and recognize in stars and elements, and 
in creatures, and trees and plants (...) Thus in the signature there lies 
great understanding, in which man not only comes 
to know himelf, but he may also learn to recognize 
the essence of all beings.” (J. Bohme, De Signatura 
rerum, 1622) 

Nature in all its facets was seen as a kind of 
secret writing, a huge cryptogram of God which 
the wise man could decipher with the help of cer- 
tain techniques. Paracelsus included among these 
geomancy (the art of fortune-telling from dots or 
earth), physiognomy, hydromancy (fortune-telling 
from water), pyromancy (from fire), necromancy 
(conjuring the dead), astronomy and berillistica 
(crystal-reading). “All stars have their unique 
nature and consistency, whose signs and charac- 
teristics they communicate, through their rays, to 
our world of elements, stones, plants and animals. 
Thus each thing has a particular sign or character- 
istic impressed on it by the star that shines upon 
it.” (Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta philosophia, 1510) Not only 
stars sign, however; Paracelsus called the “Archeus”, the inner smith, 
a signator. He is the one who transforms the information of intangi- 
ble heavenly influences into physical tangibility. He sets, so to 
speak, the script of the genetic code. 


Microcosm: Signatures 


MViicrocosm: Signatures 


Signatures 


a. Brow of a peace- 
loving and 
successful man. 


b. Brow of a spir- 
itual man with 
an inclination 
towards the 
priesthood. 


c. Brow of a man 
who will die a 
violent death. 


d. Brow of a suc- 
cessful soldier. 


e. Brow of aman 
threatened by an 
injury to the head. 


f. Brow of a poi- 
soner. 


“A brow is idiotic 
if it has, in the 
middle and 
beneath, an elon- 
gated hollow, even 
one that is barely 
noticeable, and if 
it is itself elon- 
gated — I say if itis 
barely noticeable 
— as soonas itis 
noticeable every- 
thing changes.” 
(J.C. Lavater, Von 
der Physiognomik, 
1772) 


From: H. Cardanus, 


Metoposcopia, 
Paris, 1658 


467 


Signatures 


468 


w 


}—_____ 


fe. 


The construction of the left hand with the 
measurements and proportions. 


“The length of the nails is exactly half the 
length of the outermost finger-joints.” 
(Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta 
philosophia, 1510) 


The hand is the “Little World” of man, 
whose proportions, according to Agrippa, 
correspond to those of the body asa 
whole: it is the reflection of macrocosmic 
harmony. 


Microcosm: Signatures 


| 


fr 


reyag tte 


“Of the signs of chiromancy, know this, 
that they have their origin in the upper 
stars of the seven planets (...) Chiromancy 
is an art that consists not only in reading 
the hands of men and taking knowledge 
from their lines, branches and wrinkles, 
but includes all plants, all wood, all quartz 
and gravel, the soil and all flowing water 
and everything that has lines, veins, wrin- 
kles and the like.” (Paracelsus, De signatura 
rerum naturalium, 1537) 


A. Diirer, From the Dresden Sketchbook, 1523 


Microcosm: Signatures 


Signatures 


The proportions of the finger-joints in re- 
lation to musical intervals. “Similarly, the 
elements, qualities, humours and fluids 
enjoy particular relationships.” (Agrippa 
von Nettesheim, De occulta philosophia, 
1510) 


A. Kircher, Musurgia universalis, Rome, 1650 


The palm of the hand is read as aland- 
scape with mountains, valleys and rivers. 
The seven mountains or elevations of the 
hand correspond to the seven planets. 
Their different formation provides 
information about the development of 
the area of life assigned to the planet 

in question; the Mount of Venus of the 
thumb, for example, informs us about 
the subject's love affairs, while the Mount 
of the Sun beneath the ring finger tells 
us about his creativity and his sensitivity 
to beauty. 


Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta 
philosophia, 1510 


469 


Signatures 


The Carthusian monk Johannes von Hagen, 
called ab Indagine (c. 1424-1475), influ- 
enced the magical works of Johannes 
Trithemius and Agrippa von Nettesheim 
with his many treatises. 


He identified three main lines for the in- 
terpretation of one’s fate fom the palm of 
the hand: the centre line (linea media), the 
life or heart line (linea vitae) and the liver 
line (linea hepatis), which was thought 

to indicate disturbances in the digestive 
system. 


Johannes ab Indagine, Introductiones 
Apostelesmaticae, 1556 


Sigmar Polke, Correction of the lines 
in the hand 


470 Microcosm: Signatures 


Microcosm: Signatures 


Signatures 


A Imperfect table line 

B Sister of the lifeline 

C Line of the liver and the stomach 
D Sister of the nature line 

E Lifeline 


Johannes ab Indagine, Introductiones 
Apostelesmaticae, 1556 


A Line of table or fate 

B Line of life or of the heart 

E Central nature line 

F Line of liver or of the stomach 


Johannes ab Indagine, Introductiones 
Apostelesmaticae, 1556 


471 


Signatures 


“The ancient 
philosophers (...) 
marked out the 
contellations, 
figures, seals and 
characters which 
nature itself has 
illustrated with 
the rays of the 
stars in stones, in 
plants and their 
parts, as well asin 
the different limbs 
of the animals.” 
(Agrippa von 
Nettesheim, De 
acculta philosophia, 
1510) 


“This writing has 
expressed itself 
adequately, a 
match for the 
bright light of 
day. And yet for 
us it is hidden and 
vague.” (Giordano 
Bruno, About the 
Monas, 1591) 


Astrologers and 
geomancers, on 
Sir John de 
Mandeville’s 
Travels, Bohemia, 
1410-1420 


472 


Microcosm: Signatures 


aby 


Fijune. sohicrun, 


ee Cee a 


Microcosm: Signatures 


Ua Fic peo Sach 7 ee MRE A VSR SU, ral 


ants mabe in Lapidus adopriazcit> 


Signatures 


“People go many different ways. Anyone 
who follows and compares them will see 
wonderful figures appear; figures that 
seem to belong to that great script of 
ciphers that one sees everywhere, on 
wings, eggshells, in clouds, in snow, in 
crystals and in stone formations, in frozen 
water, inside and outside mountains (...) 
and in the particular conjunctures of 
chance. In them, one senses the key to this 
wonderful script, its grammar.” 


(Novalis, Die Lehrlinge von Sais, 1800) 


“| was further confirmed in my view of 
assigning a soul to the earth (...) that there 
must be a shaping force in the bowels of 
the earth which, like a pregnant woman, 
depicts the events of human history, as 
they played out above, in the frangible 
stone (...).” Johannes Kepler, Harmonices 
Mundi, 1619, Leipzig edition, 1925) 


A. Kircher, Mundus subterraneus, 
Amsterdam, 1682 


473 


Signatures 


“This is the 
appearance ofa 
small crab found 
in the Oresund: 
Cancer maenas. 
It is not an excep- 
tion, but the rule; 
when | bought 
twenty of them 
along that part of 
coastline, all 
twenty were 
marked by the 
same, sleepy facial 
expression. (...) 
What it means? 

I don‘t know!” 


August Strindberg, 
A Blue Book, 
Munich, 1918 


“The heart is based on the curve of the 
diaphragm, but the axis is inclined at an 
angle of 23°, like the axis of the earth 
against the path of the sun. And the heart 
is like the bud of the lotus flower, says 
the Chinaman, while the Egyptians 
worshipped the flower of the sun (Isis). 
The eye shows the same adjustment and 
inclination towards the earth’s axis or the 
sun's path, for the optic nerve is situated 
23° beneath the yellow patch which 
resembles the sun and receives the image 
on the aperture of the iris. The outer ear 
is a shell (mytilus), but the inner ear isa 
snail (planorbis). The most curious thing 
is that the little bones in the ear (right) 
bear a passing similarity to the animal in 
the mud-snail, Limnaeus (left).” 


August Strindberg, A Blue Book, 
Munich, 1918 


474 Microcosm: Signatures 


Av ogundpo 


Microcosm: Signatures 


pili 


oa 


Signatures 


Ill. top: Nature as 
an artist: signa- 
tures and fossils, 
including an alpha- 
bet of stones. 


Ill. middle: 
Anthropomorphic 
landscape. 


III. bottom: 
Camera obscura. 


A. Kircher, Ars 


magna lucis, 
Amsterdam, 1671 


475 


Script 
& seal 


According to 
Kircher, Adam‘s 
primal knowledge, 
the prisca sapien- 
tia, was handed 
down in unbroken 
succession to 
Noah. This know- 
ledge was based 
on man’s ability to 
communicate 
directly with the 
spiritual worlds 
through the primal 
or natural lan- 
guage, which was 
then split into the 
multiplicity of 
regional languages 
in the wake of the 
Babylonian confu- 
sion of languages. 
After God had 
allowed Noah and 
his family to sur- 
vive the flood in 
an ark, Noah‘s 
sons began to 
repopulate the 
earth. Shem, 
cursed by his 
father, moved to 
Egypt, and thus 
became the source 
of all wisdoms as 
captured in the 
hermetic writings. 
Despite the re- 
spect in which the 
Egyptologist 
Kircher held that 
country’s cultural 
achievements, he 
also saw Egypt as 
the mother of all 
religious errors 
such as polythe- 
ism, the doctrine 
of reincarnation, 
idolatry and black 
magic practices. 


476 


These were passed Shem‘s descend- 
on to all parts of ants. They 

the world which, include India, 

in his view, were China, Japan and 
colonized by America. 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


A. Kircher, Arca 
Noé, Amsterdam, 


The primal script (in the second column) 
was revealed directly to man by the 
angels. The Hebrews called it the celestial 
script “because it is illustrated in the 
stars”. (Agrippa von Nettesheim, De oc- 
culta philosophia, 1510) From it developed 
the Hebrew and other related alphabets. 
Kircher also traced the Egyptian hiero- 
glyph back to divine revelation, which was 


protected and preserved in the hermetic 
reserve of a sacred sign-system. Unlike 
subsequent research based on decoding 
the individual hieroglyphs as letters, 
Kircher gave symbolic meanings to his 
attempts at decipherment. 


A. Kircher, Turris Babel, Amsterdam, 1679 


> 
ry 


WEF F/ 


i 


= 
aja 


9 


N F rs a eal 
a | & 22 4 g Pie ee ee 
Clas 7h TIF N 
D| 13 =e i 
H| 11 it E] (ME: Bei i] 
Vii 3. X|\K¥ KK 4 
é || | & J 
A lM 


rH fH { 
D>) ¢ 


a 
uw 


Og} 5] Set TA/C | sla] [22 | 
Es 


4 
Bes 


T 


a>) 
Ss 


Se 
vw 


T 


=| 
Eat) 


walfAalZlrj[a 


z 
IO 


se 
—] ww 


wm 


[ro] ] 


(| 


FMM BEALS 


UW 


T I 
is 


NidiK YIN IC YWieiYJu 
G 
al rels|ea] NT 


ae 
ahe| 


=4 
S 
|) Ul 
al 
Cy 
Kx |-9 


S [F}ro} > JU] df ce] e| NZ | % fe 


ale 
ue 
> 
Ake 


EA 
4 


é 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


= 
> 
ke 
p 
x 
2 
i, 
= 


ald 
Eile 


| 
| 


Script 
& seal 


“Combinatory 
table in which (...) 
the forms of the 
original letters, 
like all those 
descended from 
them, are repres- 
ented in terms of 
their development 
over time. From 
them, it can be 
deduced that the 
alphabets of all 
languages reveal 
traces of the an- 
cient characters.” 


477 


Script 
& seal 


478 


“Tt is highly likely that the children of Sam, 
who colonized even the outermost ends of 
China, also introduced the letters and 
characters here (...) Even if the characters 
of the Chinese were similar to those of 

the Egyptians, they differed greatly in the 
manner of writing, and in the fact that 


Egyptians never (...) used hieroglyphs in 
everyday conversation, as none but the 
ruler was allowed to learn them. In addi- 
tion, the hieroglyphs were not simply 
words, but expressed general ideas and 
entire concepts.” 


Chinese characters, like Egyptian hiero- 
glyphs, are derived from pictograms 
taken from the sphere of natural things. 
The characters in fig. II from agricultural 
things, Fig. III from birds and in Fig. IV 
from worms. 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


A. Kircher, La Chine illustrée: Monuments, 
Amsterdam, 1670 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


Script 
& seal 


The characters in 
Fig. XV are based 
on fish. “Fig. XVI 
with the letters 
KLMNO could not 
be deciphered, so 
we do not know 
what it means.” 


A. Kircher, China 
Monumentis, 
Amsterdam, 1667 


“The Chinese are thought to have used the 
figures on the shell of the tortoise as a 
model for the oldest characters of their 
alphabet. The most curious ‘games of 
nature’ include the drawings on the snail 
‘conus marmoratus’ from the Indian Ocean. 
It shows a clear similarity to cuneiform 
writing (...) Experts might study this snail- 
text. At first, | thought of sending it to 
Professor Delitzsch, but then thought | 
would wait (...).” (August Strindberg, 

A New Blue Book, Munich, 1917) 


A. Kircher, China Monumentis, Amsterdam, 
1667 


479 


Script 
& seal 


480 


The Monas Hieroglyphica of the English 
astrologer and mathematician John Dee, 
first published in 1564 ina treatise of 
the same name, enjoyed great popularity 
among the early Rosicrucians and 
alchemists, since it interpreted the glyph 
of “their mercury” as the crowning sum- 
mation of all the signs of the zodiac. 


The upper semicircle is the moon, the 
circle with the point beneath it is the sun, 
and so on. The cross refers to the four ele- 


Saturnus ex 
Crave & 
Lu na. 


luppiter ex 
Crace & 
Lu na. 


duobus cornibus 
Atictis. 


Mars ex 
Solis cha- 
ractere & 
ees 


ments, but also points to birth, crucifixion 
and resurrection. “Dee’s hieroglyph 
represents the whole of being, both macro 
and microcosm. This can be applied to 
every hieroglyph. The cipher always 
stands for the whole of being, even if it 
only consists of one triangle, the simplest 
and most frequently used figure.” 
(Dietrich Donat, “Sakrale Formeln im 
Schrifttum des 17. Jh.”, in: Slavische 
Barockliteratur |, Munich, 1970) 


A. Kircher, Oedipus 
Aegyptiacus, Rome, 


Zz 


1653 
Venus 
Solis cha 
&ere & Cruce. 
Mercurius 
omnibus. 


Exaltatio Lung in Tauro. 


In his Obelisci Aegyptiaci, Kircher derived 
the origin of the Monas hieroglyph from 
the Ankh, the well-known Egyptian sign of 
life. 


A. Kircher, Obelisci Aegyptiaci, Rome, 1666 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


cox ansata 
in manibys 

Sirolacrorm 
s¥confpicua 


In notis Rebraicis, 


3} AD ] kD 
nd | 5 
Signdcula ja charsdteres 
Intelligenti« Sols, Demoni Solis, 


Tabula Solus im abdco. 


Tass Sieh ‘ Tido- than Bink 4 becom leenta vis 


Sa eee 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


Script 
& seal 


Magic square of 
the sun, with the 
diagonal total of 
111 and the overall 
total of 636. 

“The divine names 
that fill this table 
include both an 
intelligence for 
good and a demon 
for evil.” The 
names of the 
star-spirits are 
produced bya 
match between 
the numerical 
values and the 
Hebrew alphabet. 


Agrippa von 
Nettesheim, De 
occulta philosophia, 
1510 


Sigmar Polke, Tele- 
pathic session Il, 
1968 


481 


Script 
& seal 


The alchemists derived their language of 
signs and riddles directly from the patri- 
archs of their art, from Hermes Trismegis- 
tus, who is identified with the Egyptian 
Thoth, the inventor of hieroglyphic writ- 
ing. It is said that he wished to “remove 
that superior part of the wisdom of the 
world, ee with God, the angels 
and the world (...) even that science 
(alchemy) which is the holiest and most 
superior of all, from the reading of the 
unworthy”. (Adamah Booz, Splendor lucis, 
Frankfurt, 1785) 


Alongside the aim of pure obfuscation in 
the use of these signs and symbols by the 
hermetics, there was also an attempt at 
elevating the expressive possibilities of 
language into the realm of the sacred. 
Thus, for example, Marsilio Ficino was 
convinced that the divine ideas of things 
are conveyed directly in hieroglyphs. 
“That will be the Golden Age, when all 
words — figure-words - myths — and all 
figures - language figures — will be hiero- 
glyphs.” (Novalis, Freiberger naturwis- 
senschaftliche Studien, 1798) 


Medicinisch-Chymisch und Alchemistisches 
Oraculum, Ulm, 1783 


Argentum folia- 
tum. 


Argentum mufi- 
cum. 


Argentum picto- 
rium. 


Argentum vivum 


Mercurius viuus, 
Hydrargyrum, 


Armen? Bolus. 


Dy _ 
oy Co — —.— _Gaitens Sitber, 
g B al — —~ Mahler? Silber. 


g, Z. LO XS, Dueck s Silber. 
Ue Mc sok, 


Silbers Braetlein, 


—~— ~~ — —ArmenifHerBolus, 


Arfenicumalbum. 0-0, Seo, g Weiffer Arfenic , 


Arfenicum _ citri- 
num, flavum 
luteum, 


482 Microcosm: Script & seal 


5058, MaussGift, Nate 
ten-Gitt, 


AL — — — Rb 


y a 
bnbenitoeriunen Ktnft 


; 2 s ah 
eee eee) SF MR kcal 
+ ee @ ma ee Ge 
Bk | ie ato & Bf WS BE | 
7 = a 
| eo at ty y 
| cane | 2g ES? Se ees 
i hoe Ss é wn a au ne 
A ere) 
| % + w er GY x S+lhy 
e+ aC oY X Arts? a eo 5; 


abe 


RB. x“ wy 5 
| we Listy YF OD a 
5 Pa Dp nee 
4 ae 74 wr A rien 4 3 ? J 
ir ws. 73 7 77 7 aa = 
x = ‘ J gor ey Ys 
! | wal [ke sales p <a . | 


Bunge Buces ay ¥F 


4 
i 
j ee > Oe) 
Os cee dy Gr vy a, > at 
L = + 
a = <0) | 
ec ! 
rae | Br | Wad 
| oaea | EF RE oe 
| % ey % 
| ees werehaup es” OY 
Hl > 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


Script 
& seal 


In 1826 the 
Swabian poet, 
doctor and 
occultist Justinus 
Kerner took the 
seriously ill clair- 
voyant Friederike 
Hauff into his 
home, and tried to 
heal her with mag- 
netic cures de- 
vised by Mesmer. 
In his Clairvoyant 
of Prevorst, pub- 
lished in 1829, he 
also describes her 
ability to express 
herself in her own 
“inner language 
and writing”. “She 
said (...) that one 
could survey one’s 
whole life after 
death ina single 
such sign.” Kerner 
drew comparisons 
with Adam’‘s 
primal language 
which went to the 
heart of things and 
named every 
creature by its 
true name. 


J. Kerner, Die 
Seherin von 
Prevorst, 
Stuttgart, 1829 


483 


Script 
& seal 


“In the wide space 
of heaven (...) are 
figures and signs 
with which one 
can discover the 
deepest secrets. 
They are formed 
by the constella- 
tions and stars (...) 
These brilliant fig- 
ures are the letters 
with which the 
Holy and Glorious 
One created 
heaven and earth 
(...).”” (Zohar) 


“According to the 
Hebrew rabbis, 
the letters of their 
alphabet are 
formed from the 
figures of the stars 
and are thus full of 
heavenly myster- 
ies, both because 
of their shape, 
form and meaning 
and also because 
of the numbers 
contained therein 
(...).” (Agrippa von 
Netteheim) 


Karl von Eckharts- 
hausen, Auf- 
schliisse zur Magie, 
Munich, 1788 


484 


The celestial 
alphabet of the 
southern hemi- 
sphere 


The celestial 
alphabet of the 
northern hemi- 
sphere 


gS TH oy & 
0G 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


1 


POLARSTERN; 


DER STERHHIMMEL AM 24. 6. 24 UHR ZEIGT ALS STERNBILD DEH HAMENSZUG S. POLKE 


Microcosm: Apparitions 


Apparitions 


“The night sky on 

24.6.24 shows the 
name S. Polke asa 
constellation” 


Sigmar Polke, 


Night-Sky Cloth, 
1968 


485 


Apparitions 


In 1857, Justinus Kerner published his ink- 
blot pictures, a technique with which he 
had experimented for decades, in the 
belief that he had found in this aleatory 
art a medium that would bring him into 
closer contact with the spirit world. Since 
1921 Kerner’s invention has been applied 
in psychotherapy, ina slightly altered 
form, as the “Rohrschach test”. 


Kerner was an early exponent of spiritual- 
ism, which had developed in the Romantic 
age, strongly influenced by Swedenborg’s 
visions. In 1788 a Swedenborgian group in 
Stockholm had supposedly managed to 
communicate with spirits via mediums ina 
mesmeric trace. But it was not until the 
middle of the 19th century, when some 
spectacular cases of table-rapping had be- 
come famous, that interest in spiritualism 
and so-called psi phenomena spread like 
an epidemic, forming fertile soil for the 
success story of the Theosophical Society. 


486 Microcosm: Apparitions 


inca hs has DE 


Microcosm: Apparitions 


Apparitions 


Yves Klein, The 
Vampire, 1960 


487 


Apparitions 


In 1894, from the fin de siécle occult store- 
house, the dramatist August Strindberg 
developed a radical, aleatoric concept 
which he applied, amongst other things, in 
the field of photography and photo-chem- 
ical experiments. Thus he took portraits 
with a camera of his own manufacture 
containing a lens of unground glass, to 
capture the soul more authentically on the 
plate. Or else, as these illustrations show, 
he exposed the plates to the night sky 

in the developing bath, on the assumption 
that the light would be directly trans- 
ferred via the electromagnetic waves, re- 
cently discovered by R6ntgen. 


A. Strindberg, Celestographs, 1894 


“Quite clearly the spirits, like we mortals, 
have become realists (...) for on certain 
days the pillow represents terrible mon- 
sters, gothic dragons, lindworms(...)A 
newly discovered art from nature! Natu- 
ralistic clairvoyance! Why complain about 
naturalism when, full of possibilities for 
growth and development, it ushers ina 
new art? The gods are returning (...).” 

(A. Strindberg, /nferno, Berlin, 1898) 


A. Strindberg, Inferno painting, Stockholm, 
1901 


488 Microcosm: Apparitions 


Microcosm: Apparitions 


Apparitions 


“A mirror lay on my table, reflecting the 
picture of the moon. | thought: how does 
the mirror capture the moon and reflect it 
when the lens and camera of my eye are 
not there to distort? From the perspective 
of optics, each point on the flat surface of 
the mirror must reflect the light of the 
moon after such and such a law. (...) Sol 
switched the mirror for a silver bromide 
plate to achieve a more poweful effect, 
put it in the developer and exposed it at 
the same time.” 

(A. Strindberg, Sy/va Sylvarum, 1897) 


A. Strindberg, Celestographs, 1894 


Five years before the theosophist Wassily 
Kandinsky formulated the foundations of 
abstract painting, Annie Besant and 
Charles Leadbeater, who followed 
Blavatsky as director of the Theosophical 
Society, published a book of fifty-seven 
abstract paintings, “thought forms” 


(1905). 


Plate 8: Unspecified selfless love: 
“A revolving cloud of pure love”. 


C.W. Leadbeater, Annie Besant, Thought- 
forms, New York, 1905 


489 


Apparitions 


At the end of time, 
the prophets 
Elijah and Enoch, 
who are said to 
have been sent 
alive to Paradise, 
will appear and, 
with these signs, 
show the immin- 
ent destruction 

of corrupt Baby- 
lonian Christian- 
ity: the triple cross 
is the Trinity, now 
revealed inall 
things as their true 
signature. The 
sword and the rod 
announce that 
Babylon's force 
will turn against 
itself. The “grim 
wrath-fire of God” 
will soon engulf 
them both, and 
will begin the 
Golden Age of 
natural language 
“in which that 
which has been 
lost in the spirits 
of the letters will 
be rediscovered”. 


Die letzte Posaune 
an alle Volker oder 
Prophezeiungen 
Jacob Bohmes, 
Berlin and Leipzig, 
1779 


490 


veh, Petete wie fie Cer Auber it ema Mamatfersele adumbrir 
3 habe tile wre folelerForm.emptang ent Abrahianven Somafld 4 


Microcosm: Apparitions 


Microcosm: Apparitions 


Apparitions 


“It seems not to 
be generally 
known that sound 
produces form as 
well as colour, and 
that every piece of 
music leaves be- 
hind it an impres- 
sion of this nature, 
which persists for 
some considerable 
time, and is clearly 
visible and intelli- 
gible to those who 
have eyes to see.” 


Here we see the 
music of Mendels- 
sohn, which 
emerges from the 
organ in the form 
of a balloon 
through the roof 
of achurch. “The 
height of this form 
above the tower 
of the church is 
probably alittle 
over a hundred 
feet.” (C.W. Lead- 
beater, Annie 
Besant, Thought- 
forms, New York, 


1905) 
Leadbeater and 


Besant, Thought- 
forms, 1905 


491 


ROTATION 


“The essence of God is like a wheel (...), 
the more one looks at the wheel, 
the more one learns about it its shape, 
and the more one learns, 
the greater pleasure one has in the wheel (Ge) 
U. Bohme, 1612) 


Whirl & “ — Three quarks for Muster Mark!” 
magnet (J. Joyce, Finnegans Wake) 


In 1895 Annie Besant and Charles W. Lead- 
beater began a decade-long series of 
experiments, in which they attempted to 
penetrate the micro-level of matter by 
using meditation techniques. They 


assumed the existence of seven aggregate 
states of matter, including the ethereal, 
the super-ethereal, subatomic and atomic, 
all of which could be “seen through” by 
clairvoyant people. 


Newton's hypothesis of stones as solid, 

inpenetrable particles, had been in exis- 
tence for along 
time, but as early 


as 1895 it was 
suspected that 
these consisted of 
still smaller, elec- 
trically charged 
particles, elec- 
trons. 


In the rotating 
hydrogen atoms 
which appeared to 
the two theosoph- 
ists, they discov- 
ered smaller par- 
ticles in which 
points of light 
appeared, the so- 
called “subatomic 
or hyper-meta- 
proto-elements”. 
These smallest 
particles each con- 
sisted of ten inter- 
twined whirls, 
which formed a 
heart-shaped 
body. These par- 
ticles form units, 
of which Lead- 
beater and Besant 
were able to 
differentiate a 
total of seven 
basic shapes. 


Leadbeater and 
Besant, Occult 
Chemistry, 1908 


494 ROTATION: Whirl & magnet 


ROTATION: Whirl & magnet 


Whirl & 
magnet 


“The whole (hydro- 
gen) atom spins 
and quivers, and 
has to be steadied 
before exact ob- 
servation is poss- 
ible. The six little 
bodies are arrang- 
ed in two sets of 
three, forming two 
triangles that are 
not interchange- 
able, but are re- 
lated to each other 
as object and 
image.” In each of 
the six particles, 
there appear three 
points of light, 
the subatomic 
whirling elements. 


Leadbeater and 
Besant, Occult 
Chemistry, 1908 


The subatomic 
“hyper-meta- 
proto-element”, 
also called a primal 
atom, consists of 
ten energy whirls, 
three thick, lighter 
main whirls and 
seven subsidiary 
whirls. Besant 

and Leadbeater 
compared this 
structure with that 
of the Sephiroth 
tree. 


Leadbeater and 


Besant, Occult 
Chemistry, 1908 


495 


Whirl & Whirl & 
magnet magnet 


—— A anies “The nature of in- 
eras Sere (Oa finity is this: That 
shal on = every thing has 
its/ Own Vortex, 
and when once a 
traveller thro’ 
. Eternity/ Has 
Reena sites . ANN pass’d that Vor- 
me pirring tex, he perceives it 
roll backward be- 
hind/ His path, 
into a globe itself 
infolding like a 
sun, / Orlikea 
moon, orlikea 
universe of starry 
majesty,/(...) As 
the eye of man 
views both the 
east & west, 
encompassing/ Its 
vortex (...) / Thus 


sctiececsates 
Seresenesecs 


. 


ste 


3 


wines 


ws 
= 


. 


is the earth one 
, infinite plane, and 

René Descartes (1596-1650) refuted the to the centre, it is easy to imagine the same not as apparent/ 
assumption of the Scholastics that the of the planets.” (Principia Philosophiae) 3: i To the weak 
planets move in a vacuum. According to SESS Ses > Re ane i traveller confin’d 
his theory, space is filled with a material This spiral theory inspired William Blake SESS RSS % beneath the 
that he called ‘plenum’. This consists of to write a passage in his poem ‘Milton’, moony shade.” | 
tiny particles which set each other in cen- in which the Puritan poet, upon returning (William Blake, 
trifugal motion and thus form the heavenly to earth, where he must redeem the fe- Milton, 1804) 
bodies. “We must assume that the entire male parts of his soul, dashes like a comet 
matter of the heavens (...) rotates con- through the solar system. (The snaking René Descartes, 
stantly like a whirl, with the sun at its cen- line in the illustration opposite describes Principia 
tre (...) Just as one can observe the forma- the path of a comet through Descartes’ BS Philosophiae, 
tion of whirlpools in rivers, that individual whirl.) Oo : Amsterdam, 1656 
grasses floating in it run with the water, : : 
while others rotate around their own cen- René Descartes, Principia Philosophiae, as 
tre and rotate faster the closer they come Amsterdam, 1656 

“a8 cant 

ss “= : 


Corer Nsey 
- 


496 Rotation: Whirl & magnet ROTATION: Whirl & magnet 497 


Whirl & 
magnet 


498 


Emanuel Swedenborg (1688-1772) was, 
before he devoted himself entirely to his 
vision of the Beyond, one of the most 
noted scientists of his time. His theories 
about the origin of the solar system were 
considerably influenced by Descartes. He 
took the smallest particles to be points 
which put each other in spiral orbits, and 
thus formed the first substance. He 
termed them “the first or simple Infinite”. 
With the addition of the magnetic ele- 
ment, the original solar ocean became a 
Cartesian whirl and it was here that the 
Finita of the fourth order emerged. These 
formed a kind of crust around the solar 
whirl — which Swedenborg identified with 


ROTATION: Whirl & magnet 


the chaos of the ancients .” (Inge Jonsson, 
“E. Swedenborgs Naturphilosophie”, in: 
Epochen der Naturmystik, Ed. Faivre/Zim- 
mermann, Berlin, 1979) (Fig.1) This crust 
dilates until it breaks (Fig. 2) and forms an 
equatorial belt (Fig. 3). The matter thus 
liberated forms spheres on the level of the 
zodiac (Fig. 4), which now revolve around 
the sun as autonomous planets and satel- 
lites (Plate XXVII). 


“This concept marks a further stage of 
development in Descartes’ hypothesis, 
that the planetary system arose out of an 
influx of matter from outside into the solar 
whirl. Swedenborg’s ideas were actually 


ne % 7:2 
ee: 


Pee 


Emanuel Swedenborg, Opera philosophia et 
mineralia, Dresden and Leipzig, 1734 


much closer to the vapour theories that 
would be formulated by Buffon, Kant and 
Laplace later on in the 18th century.” 


TAB. IIT. Srinewpp: a 


ROTATION: Whirl & magnet 


Whirl & 
magnet 


499 


Whirl & 
magnet 


The investigation 
of magnetic phe- 
nomena was a 
central focus in 
Swedenborg’s 
nature studies. In 
the 17th and 18th 
centuries magnet- 
ism was a blanket 
term covering all 
possible phenom- 
ena in the thresh- 
old zone between 
mind and matter. 
Goethe called the 
magnet “asymbol 
of everything left 
over, for which 
we need seek 
neither words nor 
names”. (Spriiche 
in Prosa zur Farben- 
fehre) 


“And thus you too, 
my dear man, see 
magnetic man 
while he is still 
bound to the body 
and thus to the 
world of the 
senses, emerging 
with extended 
antennae into the 
spirit world, of 
which he will be 
your witness.” 
(Justinus Kerner, 
Die Seherin von 
Prevorst, 1829) 


Emanuel 
Swedenborg, 
Opera philosophia 
et mineralia, 
Dresden and 
Leipzig, 1734 


500 


TAB: Srncygp 


Fig: w, 


RoTaTION: Whirl & magnet 


& 


One major influence on the Romantic 
philosophy of nature was the spectacular 
and widespread magnetic cures of the 
Austrian doctor Franz Anton Mesmer 
(1734-1815) and his theory of “animal 
magnetism”. The Freemason and patron 
of Mozart was familiar with the theories 
of Paracelsus and the healing practices 
of Robert Fludd. Like Fludd, he based his 
work ona magnetic bipolarity of the 


ROTATION: Whirl & magnet 


Whirl & 
magnet 


E. Sibley, A Key to 
Magic & the Occult 
Sciences, c. 1800 


human body and the influence of an all- 
pervasive vital fluid. Illnesses derived 
from an unharmonic distribution of this 
fluid life-force. At first Mesmer attempted 
a balancing influx via group therapy, in- 
volving the touching of magnetic objects, 
later transferred directly from the doctor 
to the patient through the power of sug- 
gestion. Thus, Mesmer became a pioneer 
of hypnotherapy. 


501 


Divine 
Geometry 


502 


Ernst Chladni (1756-1827) illustrated his 
book Entdeckungen iiber die Theorie des 
Klangs, (1787), the first comprehensive 
treatment of scientific acoustics, witha 
large number of the sound-figures that are 
produced when a plate covered witha fine 
powder is vibrated with a violin bow. 


The origin of the Indian Yantras is also 
thought to derive from sound-patterns 
such as these. “Everything that we see and 
feel in the universe, from thought or idea 


to matter, is sound ina particular concen- 
tration.” (Ajit Mookerjee, Tantra-Kunst, 
Basle edition, 1967/68) 


Novalis, impressed by Chladni’s experi- 
ments, observed: “Might the letters 
originally have been acoustic figures, 
letters a priori?” (Novalis, Das Allgemeine 
Brouillon, 1798/99) 


Ernst Chladni, Entdeckungen iiber die 
Theorie des Klanges, 1787 


Rg 
R 
ES 
N 


6a. 


iain 


_12-6. 


th 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


PAC 
Bir 


ES 


Yas 


aN 


nv 


Seesaw 
4 
= 


a, 
it> 
Si 


ee 
We: 


SEES 
aS 
WG 


ams 


SZ 


From: 14 Hauptschliissel der Steinmetz- 
zeichen, in: Der Steinmetz, Hallein, 1980 


Figure of the spirit, Giordano Bruno, Articuli 
centrum..., Prague, 1588 


Figure of love, Giordano Bruno, Articuli 
centrum..., Prague, 1588 


RoTATION: Divine Geometry 


Divine 
Geometry 


“Geometry ex- 
isted before the 
creation of things, 
as eternal as the 
spirit of God; it is 
God himself and 
gave him the pro- 
totypes for the 
creation of the 
world.” (Johannes 
Kepler, Harmonices 
Mundi, 1619) 


“The order of a 
unique figure and 
the harmony of a 
unique number 
give rise to all 
things.” (Giordano 
Bruno, About the 
Monas, 1591) 


503 


Divine 
Geometry 


504 


In an idea of Plato's, supposedly based on 
the secret teachings of the ancient Egyp- 
tians, the smallest particles in the world 
consist of regular triangles. These form 
five regular bodies, the basic units of the 
five elements. (ether, or the celestial fire, 
was seen as quintessence.) 


According to calculations carried out by 
Johannes Kepler in 1596, the “Geometrical 
God” had allocated these five bodies to 
the precise distances between the plan- 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


etary orbits: to the Saturn-Jupiter sphere 
the six-sided cube standing for the ele- 
ment “Earth”, to the Jupiter-Mars sphere 
the pyramid-shaped four-sided tetra- 
hedron (Fire), between Mars and Earth the 
twelve-sided dodecahedron (Ether), be- 
tween Earth and Venus the twenty-sided 
icosahedron (Water), and between Venus 
and Mars the eight-sided octahedron (Air). 


Kepler had no doubt that in making this 
discovery, which he had to revise a short 
time later, he had 
tapped into the 
ancient hermetic 
source of wisdom. 
“Tl have robbed the 
golden vessels of 
the Egyptians,” 

he confessed, “to 
build a holiness for 
my God, far from 
the borders of 
Egypt.” (Harmon- 
ices Mundi, 1619) 


J. Kepler, 
Mysterium Cosmo- 
graphicum, 1660 


RoTaTION: Divine Geometry 


Divine 
Geometry 


Just as the infinite 
variety of natural 
things emerges 
from the five Pla- 
tonic elemental 
bodies, infinite 
variations of per- 
spective can also 
be deduced from 
their fundamental, 
geometrical struc- 
tures. Nurem- 
berg goldsmith 
Wenzel Jamnitzer 
(1508-1585) con- 
structed 140 such 
geometrical fig- 
ures, then had the 
Zurich artist, Jobst 
Amman make 
copper plates of 
them. “The defini- 
tive theory of mat- 
ter will, as in Plato, 
be characterized 
by a series of im- 
portant require- 
ments of symme- 
try (...). These 
symmetries can no 
longer simply be 
explained through 
figures and pic- 
tures, as was pos- 
sible in the case of 
the Platonic bod- 
ies, but through 
equivalents.” 
(Werner Heisen- 
berg, Schritte iiber 
Grenzen, Munich 
1971) 


W. Jamnitzer, Per- 
spectiva Corporum 
Regularium, 
Nuremberg, 1568 


505 


Divine 
Geometry 


Blake’s illustration 
refers to a passage 
in Milton’s poem 
on melancholy, ‘II 
Penseroso’ (1631), 
in which Hermes 
Trismegistus and 
the spirit of Plato 
appear to him at 
night to reveal the 
metaphysical 
worlds. 


In accord with his 
motto, ‘opposi- 
tion is true friend- 
ship’, Blake re- 
served his most 
violent attacks 
for the figures 
who had been the 
source of the 
greatest stimula- 
tion: Trismegistus- 
Mercury fetters 
the imagination 
with his abstract 
and materialistic 
doctrines, and 
Plato’s philosophy 
is characterized by 
bellicose morality 
and virtue (Mars 
in the central 
sphere). Blake de- 
picted Plato’s God 
as a hard-hearted 
geometrist with 
the compass of 
deadly reason in 
his hand (right- 
hand sphere). 


506 


RoTaTION: Divine Geometry 


W. Blake, Milton 
and the Spirit of 
Plato, c. 1816, 
watercolour 


Philofo 
TENE 


RoTATION: Divine Geometry 


Cin: 


Divine 
Geometry 


“Note this, that of the knowledge of God 
there are two kinds, one natural, from the 
light of nature, which does not yet bring 
rebirth or bliss (Phifosophia as the dark 
side), and a supernatural knowledge from 
the light of faith or mercy, and herein lies 
complete bliss (Theologia as the bright 
side).” 


V. Weigel, Introductio hominis, in 
Philosophia Mystica, Neustadt, 1618 


The oneness of God is expressed in the 
visible, elemental world, by the polarity of 
rest and movement as the fixed and the 
drawing legs of the compass. The two are 
linked by “the bond of love or justice”. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. II, 
Frankfurt, 1621 


507 


Divine 
Geometry 


“The One is not 
included by any 
Limits. The Heav- 
ens of Heavens, 
comprehend Thee 
not.” 


D.A. Freher, Para- 
doxa Emb/emata, 
manuscript, 

78th century 


Ot One Baol bei Bae 


oO She Heaverrs of Heavens, COR Ge 
fend THEE not- 


The ‘Paradoxa Emblemata’ of Dionysius 
Andreas Freher (1649-1728) never 
appeared in print, but they did circulate in 
a number of handwritten copies in English 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


bohemian circles, including the Philadel- 
phia society headed by John Pordage and 
the Anglican mystic Jane Leade. 


Py this means t cy are. Ce 


ase os Labour, & Hert i Frest: 


The extraordinary level of abstraction in 
these 153 hieroglyphs or emblem pictures 
corresponds to the theme: the relation- 
ships between unground and ground, be- 
tween nothing and something, unity and 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


variety. The Zohar and Bohme both iden- 
tify the primal point present in all things, 
the eye of the needle that connects the 


two ends, with Sophia, the divine matrix. 


Divine 
Geometry 


“By this means 
they are Com- 
bined. Here is 
Labour, & there is 
Rest.” 


D.A. Freher, Para- 
doxa Emblemata, 
manuscript, 

18th century 


509 


Divine 
Geometry 


For Blake, reason 
represents the 
outer limit of en- 
ergy. If separated 
from its centre, 
the imagination, 
it becomes a 
Satanic, veiling 
power. Here, the 
saturnine creator 
God, Urizen, is 
creating the ‘mute 
sphere’ (Ulro), the 
“circled cage or 
the distempered 
sphere of imagina- 
tion of frozen 
heaven” in which 
man “runs about in 
the circle of his 
earthly body”. 
(Abraham von 
Franckenberg, 
Oculus sidereus, 
1643) 


Urizen is the hid- 
clen God of the 
Deists, separated 
from his mechan- 
ical universe and 
his creations. 


W. Blake, Europe, 
1794 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


Joyce interprets the circle that Newton is 
drawing with the compass in Blake’s 
picture as a ‘cyclone’. (Finnegans Wake, 

p. 294) The word refers on the one hand 
to Blake’s own ‘optics’, according to which 
sight, borrowing from Descartes and 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


Religion, 1788) 


Bohme, acts like an open, creative whirl. 
On the other hand it refers to Newton’s 
materialistic ‘one-eyed-ness’ (Cyclops), 
based on the idea that one can “see with 
the eye and not through the eye”. 
(Blake) 


W. Blake, Newton, 1795 


Divine 
Geometry 


Here, Newton is sitting in the gloomy 
waters of Ulro, constructing a physical eye. 
The whole world is God’s organ of per- 
ception, he wrote in the first edition of 
the Opticks (1706). For Blake, however, 
Newton’s design of a material and func- 
tional universe mirrors his own ‘simple 
vision’. “He who sees the infinite in all 
things sees God. He who sees the ratio, 
sees only himself.” (There is no Natural 


Franciscus Aguilonis, 
Optica, 1611 


511 


Divine 
Geometry 


On the subject of his book ‘Finnegans Wake’, 
on which he was working at the time and 
which was to occupy him for seventeen 
years between 1922 and 1939, Joyce wrote 
to a patron: “I’m working on a machine 
with only one wheel. Without spokes, of 
course. The wheel is a perfect square.” 


TT 


P 


Not only does the ‘Wake’ deal in many 
places with hermetic motifs, subjecting 
language itself to a fundamental process 
of transformation — its external structure 
is also based on the alchemistic process. 
Like Blake and Swift, Joyce used the 
techniques which Fulcanelli identified as 
characteristic of the language of the al- 
chemists: ‘Double meanings, approxima- 
tions, word-play and homophonies”. 
(Fulcanelli, Le Mystére des Cathédrales, 
Paris, 1925) 


The “rotary processus”, designed to trans- 
fer the four-elemental disharmony of the 
prima materia and the four chapters of 

the book into the perfect roundness of 
the lapis, is externally accomplished in 
the well-known effect whereby the clos- 
ing words of the book, “(...) a long the” 
are supposed to flow into the opening: 
“riverrun past Eve and Adam’s (eS: 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


Joyce would not be Joyce if the gap that 
clearly yawns between the two phrases 
could not be meaningfully closed. There 

is much in the book about keys that must 
be found, and the closing passage includes 
the words: “The Keys to. Given!”. 
(Finnegans Wake, p. 293) 


FW 293 


Joyce provided crucial references on pages 
293-294, in which the twin sons of the 
protagonist Anna Livia Plurabelle are pre- 
occupied with finding the solution toa 
geometrical problem. Joyce took the dia- 
gram from a commentary to Euclid by the 
Neoplatonist Proclus. The intersections 
ALP stand for the initials of the mother. 
The accompanying text, full of references 
to Blake’s mythology and his picture of 
Newton, reveals that behind the point P 
for Plurabelle stands the Greek letter Rho 
which is written like the Latin P. (Cf. 
Alexander Roob, CS /V, der Punkt rho, Ed. 
Kunsthalle Nuremberg, 1992) 


Ais inverted as V or U on the mirror-axis L 
(for Liffey, the river that flows through 
Dublin), and thus we have, as a lower (plu- 
tonic) counterpart to the transcendental 
platonic «7, Blake’s world of darkness, 
Ulro, the “vegetable cell” (295) in which 


man vegetates in a purely physical 
sense. 


Rho/P is the “cloukey to a worldroom 
beyond the roomworld” (100), and the 


anagram of rho: “Ohr fiir oral, key for crib” 


(302) serves not only as a key to the cryp- 
togram, but also to the cryptic nature of 
the book itself, which is asound-book, 
word-music. Here, Joyce used a series of 
encryption techniques similar to those of 
John Dee in his Monas Hieroglyphica. 


Nestling in the seam between the begin- 
ning and end of the book lies ‘theohri’ 
(theory), and it should be born in mind 
that the beginning of the book, asin 
Plato’s cycle of the world, is a recursive 
one, as the following reading suggests: 
‘the ohr/er’. (“Or that both may be con- 
templated simultaneously?” 109) 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


Divine 
Geometry 


Joyce was also familiar with Madame 
Blavatsky’s interpretation of the letter T 
(Greek ‘Tau’) as an androgynous symbol 
of the “reciprocal containment of two op- 
posite principles in one, just as the Saviour 
is mystically held to be male-female”. 
(H.P. Blavatsky, The Secret Doctrine, 1888) 
This might mean, for the end of the book, 
that an invisible theos contains not only 

a he-rho (hero) but also a she-rho (chi-rho: 
Christ). 


“Exclusivism: the Ors, Sors and Fors, 
which?” (299) ‘Rho/P’ generates a whole 
series of hermetic associations, familiar 
from the picture series of Janus Lacinius: 
English ‘rope’, the ‘Tau’ (dew) of the Rosi- 
crucians; French ‘roi’, the king, and ‘or’, 
gold and, in Hebrew, light. And of course 
the tail-biter ‘ouroboros’, as the proto- 
type of endless rotation. 


Alexander Roob, 
CS V, Ed. Bernd 
Schulz, Klagenfurt, 
1995 (after Ernst 
Mach, Analyse der 
Empfindungen, 
1886) 


513 


Wheel 


In a vision of the prophet Zechariah 

(6, 1-8), the four winds appear in the form 
of four chariots pulled by horses of various 
colours. There are correspondences in the 
elements, humours and four stages of the 
hermetic Work to these four directions 
and colours. 


“The black horses pull northwards (Earth, 
Melancholy, Nigredo), the white pull west- 
wards (Water, Phlegm, Albedo), the red 
eastwards (Fire, Choler, Rubedo) and the 
bay southwards (Air, Sanguis, Peacock’s. 
Tail)”. 


ROTATION: Wheel 


SMOMLNGLAaAS 


‘gN FGI 930° 


“Four angel princes are placed above the 
four winds (...), Michael above the east 
wind, Raphael above the west wind, 
Gabriel above the north wind, Uriel above 
the south wind. (...) Likewise there are 


also four of the evil spirits (...) The Hebrew 


rabbis call them (...) Samael, Azazel, Azael 
and Mahazael. Among them, in turn, there 
rule other princes and heads of legions. 
Vast is the number of demons which have 
their own particular tasks.” (Agrippa von 
Nettesheim, De occulta philosophia, 1510) 


R. Fludd, Philosophia Sacra, Frankfurt, 1626 


rAapieey™ 
SRE 


? ¢ 
rit ital 
iss 


a 


° 


In the visions of Fludd and Bohme, influ- 
enced by the Cabbala, God consists of the 
two centrifugal and centripetal forces of 
will and unwill, or light and darkness. From 
his dark side emerge the demonic powers 
which bring illness. Human beings “as 
creatures of light can only be saved and 
remain healthy by praying to God.” The 


ROTATION: Wheel 


drawing shows prayer being listened to, 
and man protected by the four archangels 
in the ‘Fortress of Health’. They success- 
fully repel the stimuli to illness, which 
Fludd called ‘invisible seed’. 


R. Fludd, Medicina Catholica, 
Frankfurt, 1629 


Wheel 


515 


Wheel 


GOs sNUADLADS TYPVE, 


: 
8 
S 
C 
. 
S 
S 
o 


oD) 


Here the “Fortress of Health” is being suc- 
cessfully attacked by the demonic powers, 
as the patient has in various ways broken 
the Commandments. Doctor Fludd is 
taking his pulse and examining his urine. 
These are indicators of the level of 
“volatile salts” in the body. These salts 
alone keep the life in the body in working 
order, for they are fluid, divine sparks of 
light. They are transported to man as 
God’s messengers, and drawn from the air 
by the chemical action of the left ventricle 
of the heart. The impure parts are exhaled 
and excreted in the urine as sal ammoniac. 


ROTATION: Wheel 


Ina series of alchemical experiments with 
wheat, which Fludd described in his 
Philosophicall Key (Robert Fludd and his 
Philosophicall Key, Ed. A.G. Debus, New 
York, 1979), he tried to isolate this 
spiritual substance. He described a “white 
christalline spirit” a pure saltpetre. Bohme 
called it the ‘celestial salitter’. 


R. Fludd, Integrum Morborum 
Mysterium, Frankfurt, 1631 


if 
Nalin? 


Pindanicurr 
arn Ab 


q x borcafinanfurd. 


Ste pmerecatinol! { 
ails clenref, 


1d onto von fer 
pie ere: agreay 
% f 


7 


wh die 
fel 


iret 
nu 
| Bi 


Pi ne foe { 
€ yaa He JA pile, are 
Ez fame cilors (desert fpr) 
Ast ‘Hesnaptss Ioou ines ei 
M. Agen hina i 
ee Spar Sqamhosete (ria figs fiekeah 


- jeuiglin  pstts. parisoe | 
7 De a 
| [eset humans p 
epal’y pliter 
eryel 7p we. 


) Cass aptasfuereflorss| 
predicarrcur 
Dob se 

~ anol 


fue upd hissy 
"ag pit | syp.juo. Safad gon ay Jtifo 


Rotation: Wheel 


faery aedfalusstien y 
y 


epee oing 
~~ 


Pyro jrerdu 


$nso) puonsst et Dyussiydey “adn Jans Louapy 
i 


| 
| 
j 


Wheel 


The microcosm at 
the intersection of 
the compass 
points, with the 
four main and 
eight subsidiary 
winds. The north 
wind on the left 
corresponds to the 
element air (san- 
guis), the east 
wind at the top 
corresponds to the 
element fire 
(choler), the south 
wind on the right 
corresponds to the 
element water 
(phlegm), the west 
wind at the bot- 
tom corresponds 
to the element 
earth (melancho- 
lia). 


Astronomical 
manuscript, 
Bavaria, 

q2th century 


517 


Wheel 


According to Johan 
Kiinigsperger, the 
hot and dry east 
winds (top) are the 
healthiest, while 
the warm and 
moist south winds 
(right) come “from 
warm countries / 
with many poison- 
ous beasts / that 
poison the air”. 
They “dull the 
blood in man”, 

and are therefore 
to be avoided. The 
moist and cold 
west winds “bring 
fog and clarity/ 
and all three are 
healthy”. The cold 
and dry north 
winds are also “all 
healthy/ and 
strengthen and 
empower”. 
(Temporal des 
Johan Kiinigsperger, 
Frankfurt, 1502) 


Wind table, manu- 
script of Hradisko 
Benedictine 
monastery, 

72th century 


TEM THs 


a. 


aur baprcatin lonsrprbir leona ursuliattedsrimen PE 


Meriden: alinurtes! techs we. eit : S 
Pima alta Ud ale i paltiokl tens coxrregnee 
fealtest Ducconte~ yoflrutrazr null’ clerietippeetufiin qualtbe-aneumi 


MIO E Nee UME Aides caufihicra-pinerctivan # 
edgiteti : chiar letpp. tempore 

afisnemutt akan fershicut nfindone’ finct coletraresS cnonaft folitoe> 

¥-que‘fiperstra ame’ glioto colt & from 5 crona bene’ 


TAY 


ROTATION: Wheel 


In the 6th century, Isidore of Seville col- 
lected the traditions of the ancient, nat- 
ural philosophers and combined them with 
the teachings of the Church Fathers. The 
basis for his macro-microcosm diagrams 
were Empedocles’ theory of the four ele- 
ments (5th century B.C.), the Aristotelian 
theory of the qualities and the transfer- 
ability of the elements, which forms the 
basis of alchemy and Hippocrates’ theory 
of the four humours (5th century B.C.) 


RoTATION: Wheel 


eM Pereny fequennten pefiace 


Te 


The four figures represent the seasons in 
the wheel of the twelve months. Their 
microcosmic equivalents are the four 
humours. Autumn corresponds to black 
gall (Melancholia - Earth), summer to 
yellow gall (Cholera — Fire), spring to the 
sanguine (Air) and winter to the phleg- 
matic humour (Water). 


Isidore of Seville, De natura rerum, 
manuscript, 9th century 


Wheel 


519 


Wheel 


520 


For Bohme the cross was the fundamental signature of all things, 
consisting of the two axes of the machinery at work through all three 
worlds. The glyph of this wheel @ appears in Rosicrucian alchemy as 
the symbol of the arcane ‘salt of the bond’, which God sealed with 
the people of Israel, and which was renewed by the body of Christ 
for the whole of humanity. And, according to Bhme, it signified the 
heart of God, which “is like to the round ®, like the whole rainbow, 
which appears divided, for the cross is its division.” 

The rainbow that rose above the ebbing Flood is the most familiar 
Old Testament sign. Newton’s optics gave it a new twist as a physical 
phenomenon occurring when light is broken down. Goethe and Blake 
called this phenomenon an illusory ‘spectre’. And thus, in Blake's 
mythology, the appearance of the complete rainbow arising from the 
perfect harmony of the four elemental creatures (Zoas) and over the 
dark sea of time and space, heralds the triumph of the visionary over 
the restrictions of the physical world of phenomena. 

To arrive at these four compass points of the cross-signature, 
Bohme had to transform the fundamental Paracelsian trinity into a 
quadrinity, by dividing the original sulphur into two aspects through 
the salnitric fire-crack emanating from it: 1. Sul: Soul, light and 
2. Phur: sharp fire. In addition there are, 3. Mercurius: desire and 
mobility and 4. Sal: fearfulness. In Gichtel’s title engraving, the four 
creatures or Evangelists are set out in the outermost circle of the 
zodiac: Taurus % (Luke), Lion §2 (Mark), Eagle: Scorpio TIL,(John), 
man: Aquarius ~~ (Matthew). 

The six planets fall within the inner circle of the Great Wheel. 
Only Mercury is absent, because in its mobility it embodies the 
wheel itself. This wheel is “the source of life and rain, and the source 
of the senses (...) and as the Planetary Wheel has its instanding, so 
too is the birth of a thing”. This ‘instanding’ (Instehen) could be read 
from the signatures or lineaments of a creature, for each planet or 
“source spirit’ is expressed in a specific proportion in each being. 


ROTATION: Wheel 


ROTATION: Wheel 


Wheel 


The properties of 
the seven planets 
or ‘source spirits’: 


Saturn is contrac- 
tion (sour); 
Jupiter: mildness 
in Sul; Mars: 
power in Phur; 
Venus: sweet 
desire; Sol: the 
heart-centre. In 
her double aspect, 
Luna Sophia is 
both earthly body 
and ‘celestial 
being’ (tincture). 
She is the bride of 
the Christ-Lamb, 
which gleams 

like an inner sun 
through the celes- 
tial Jerusalem or 
the spiritual form 
of the zodiac. 


J. Bohme, 
Theosophische 
Wercke, 
Amsterdam, 1682 


521 


Wheel 


Through the circu- 
latory transforma- 
tion of the 
elements and 
humours, the op- 
posites are united 
and matter passes 
fom its temporary, 
heterogeneous 
stateintoa 
permanent, homo- 
geneous state. 


“Because the first 
Adam and his 
descendants had 
their origin in the 
fragile elements, 
so the same 
combination must 
necessarily perish. 
But the second 
Adam (...) is made 
of pure elements, 
so that he remains 
eternal. What 
consists of simple 
and pure sub- 
stance remains 
indestructible in 
eternity.” (Aurora 
consurgens, early 
16th century) 


L. Thurneysser, 


Quinta essentia, 
1574 


522 


Doe ip pga 


en, 


ROTATION: Wheel 


Wrgrece 


ih 


PSE 


eecen 


= 


cocoreextnns 


RoTATION: Wheel 


i 
rh 

Renal 
eh 


iy 


1a 


} 


Wheel 


A work in the in- 
sular style of man- 
uscript painting 
featuring Celtic 
ornamentation, 
whose influence 
spread to the 
continent in the 
7th and 8th cen- 
turies with the 
foundation of Irish 
monasteries. 


The “tetramorph” 
is formed from 
various parts of 
the emblematic 
animals of the 
evangelists. 
Joyce called it 
“Mamalujo”: 
“They were the ~ 
big four, the four 
maaster waves of 
Erin (..) Mat and 
Ma and Luand Jo”. 
(Finnegans Wake) 
They squat in 
pairs, and their 
quadrinity gradu- 
ally becomes aro- 
tating circle. Now 
they are “signs on 
the salt” (p. 321), 
® Celtic crosses. 


Miniature ina 


Gospel from Trier or 
Echternach, c. 775 


523 


Wheel 


ee eee Bpse BOE 


Bieetfrcersea pee oe 
j teoeipe ell ue 


PAL 


fag oD 


Be Meryois CetchS, SHO GAP 


oe seabed J Rpeto. re. & Lied 


Pata Asie bers: erat # 
oe a bags to enter 


oxceiie ‘i HOSEL 
Sete wey" week 


sean fae WOES LIL. 


Siri ise Tibi Sige. Site LRAT 


fee peli ax L703 


eee rege iE devege 


Ze tre & Ps Sey Bi deans trie 


pe 


ie : ef onan. 
te eS Es 


Jerusalem, 
1804-1820 


The ‘Zoas’ (Blake used the Greek plural 
‘Zoa’‘ as a singular) are the four “living 
creatures” that appear in the vision of 
Ezekiel and in the Revelation of John. 
Blake called them the “four Mighty Ones 
in every Man”, they embody his “eternal 
senses”, and their four faces look in the 
direction of all four worlds. In the west 
dwells Tharmas, the physical body. As- 


524 ROTATION: Wheel 


W. Blake, Fare Ae Aloose pe Syne 


hock Breniel Hie LPN O 
a gery Basan: 2 pou 


ether ees oF 3 


ECE a ee Heo sige 


cate as orc, Nol f ge LOCAL 


Crects 4 
1 phere 


bike Si 
ee 


pes 
die clea fobs : 


lien ee OULD 


signed to it is the element Water, the 
sense of taste, painting, the world of birth 
(generatio) and the continent of America. 
In the south rules Urizen, reason, with the 
element Air, the sense of sight and archi- 
tecture. Its world is dark Ulro and its con- 
tinent Africa. Luvah in the east is passion. 
To it belongs fire, the sense of smell, mu- 
sic, the intermediate realm of imagination 


and the continent of Asia. Los-Urthona in 
the north embodies the twofold salt- 
aspect of the imagination. Urthona is the 
“celestial salitter”, and Los its earthly 
representative (Sol, Sal or Archeus). Its 
element is the earth of Paradise, its sense 
organ the ear, which receives the sounds 
of the spheres, its art is poetry, its world is 
eternity and its continent Europe. 


When Adamic humanity, in the form of the 
giant Albion, had imagined itself away 


RoTATION: Wheel 


from the divine centre into the periphery 
of egoism, and began to protect its celes- 
tial companion Jerusalem from her regular 
bridegroom, the Christ-Lamb, Albion fell 
into the death-sleep of Ulro. This event, in 
which Luvah took over the world of Urizen 
in the south, brought in its wake the end- 
less war of the Zoas. Since then the emo- 
tions have ruled reason, which in turn sup- 


presses the imagination, the divine in man. 


Gospel of Rossano, 6th century 


Wheel 


525 


Wheel 


526 


The basic powers of man in the Indian sym- 
bol of the team of horses: 


“The self (atma, the divine core of being) 
owns the chariot, the body is the chariot, 
intuitive distinction and recognition is the 
charioteer; the function of thought is the 
reins; the powers of the senses are the 
horses; and the objects or spheres of 
sensory perception are the track. Man, 

in whom are combined the self and the 


ROTATION: Wheel 


powers of the senses and of thought, is 
called the eater or the enjoyer.” 
(Katha Upanishad, 8—6th century B.C.) 


The horses, shown wild and uncontrolled 
in the picture, are interpreted in sequence 
from the finest to the coarsest sensory 
perceptions: hearing — seeing — smelling — 
tasting — feeling. 


Bhaktivedanta Book Trust, 1987 


The Sufi-influenced teachings of the Cau- 
casian G.I. Gurdjieff (1873-1949) were 
aimed at destroying man’s illusory self-im- 
age, and revealing him as a being guided 
by mechanical reflexes. Gurdjieff distin- 
guished four centres in man: the centre 
for motion, thought and feeling and that 
of the form-giving apparatus. These four 
should be correctly organized as a hier- 
archical team of passenger, chariot, driver 
and horse. On the 
cover for the pro- 
gramme of his 
institute, which 
he founded at 
Fontainebleau in 
1922, they are 
shown as the four 
creatures in the 
enneagram. 


Gurdjieff’s most 
famous pupils and 
acolytes included 
the Russian mystic 


RoTATION: Wheel 


TO KNOW-TO UND 


P.D. Ouspensky, who, with his writings on Wheel 
the fourth dimension, influenced suprem- 

atism, the theatre director Peter Brook, 

the architect Frank Lloyd Wright and the 

composer de Hartmann, who worked with 

Kandinsky. 


Alexander de Salzmann, cover-design for 
the programme of the “Institute for the Har- 
monic Development of Man”, Tiflis, 1919 


ERSTAND 


0 
EE CE! 342 


ys 


“10 on 


Gh 


arn Onioug D exclop™™ 
“cording te the me 


SI GURDSIET® 


: 


i 


if 


OL. Wace aan 9 Delite 


COTA al 


527 


Wheel 


Gurdjieff: “The enneagram is perpetual! 
motion (...) The understanding of this 
symbol and the ability to make use of it 
give man very great power. It is the per- 
petuum mobile and it is also the phitoso- 
phers’ stone of the alchemists.” In order to 
understand it, one must think of it “(...) in 
motion”. (P.D. Ouspensky, /n Search of 

the Miraculous) 


Origin of the ‘Primum Mobile’, from: Robert 
Fludd, Philosophia Sacra, Frankfurt, 1626 


The figure of the enneagram is formed 

by linking the two “sacred cosmic funda- 
mental laws” of the Triamasikamno 
(Trinity) and the Heptaparaparschinoch 
(Sevenness). The former consists of 

the powers Surp-Ortheor (affirmation: 
father), Surp-Skiros (negation: son) and 
Surp-Athanatos (reconciliation: holy spirit). 


The enneagram indicates the two points in 
the octave (3 and 6) at which forces must 
come from without so that the direction of 
motion is not reversed. To free the active 
will of man from the mechanical associ- 
ations of the ordinary, Gurdjieff began to 
study the diagram with his pupils as a 
choreographic figure, assigning special 
motions to the individual points. 


528 ROTATION: Wheel 


ay 


Gurdjieff: “Every complete whole, every 
cosmos, every organism, every plant is an 
enneagram (...) But not every one of these 
enneagrams has an internal triangle. The 
internal triangle indicates the presence of 
higher elements according to the table of 
‘hydrogens’ ina particular organism.” 


RoTATION: Wheel 


Wheel 


“Everything can be included and read in 
the enneagram. A man can be quite alone 
in the desert and he can trace the ennea- 
gram in the sand and in it read the eternal 
laws of the universe” (P.D. Ouspensky, /n 
Search of the Miraculous). 


Joseph Beuys, 
Lady’s cloak 
(Detail), 1948 


529 


Wheel 


530 


According to the research of his pupil J.G. 
Bennett, Gurdjieff encountered the en- 
neagram around 1900, as a dance-figure in 
acommunity of Naqshbandi dervishes in 
Uzbekistan. Their teaching methods and 
rules bear remarkable parallels with Gurd- 
jieff’s own techniques. The Naqshbandi 
are said to refer to the traditions of the 
secret association of the ‘Pure Brothers of 
Basra’, formed around A.D. 950. They de- 
veloped an influential universal system in 
which Greek, Persian, Hebrew, Chinese 
and Indian traditions merged beneath the 
overall heading of a pseudo-Pythagorean 
numerical mysticism. They taught that all 


1. Combinatory figure 


RoTATION: Wheel 


worlds and natural phenomena are struc- 
turally based on the number nine. Their 
encyclopaedic writings, which “are among 
the most important works in the history of 
chemistry (...) that have come down to us 
from the early Arab period” (E.O. von 
Lippmann, Enstehung und Ausbreitung der 
Alchemie, Berlin, 1919-1954), spread to 
Spain around the year 1000. Ramon Lull 
may have come across them in the 13th 
century, using them as the foundation for 
his ‘Ars generalis’ based on the number 
nine (cf. p. 246 ff). 


R. Lull, Ars brevis, Paris, 1578 


2. Combinatory figure 


RoTATION: Wheel 


Wheel 


Above the worldly 
“Perpetuum Mo- 
bile” of the zodiac 
and the planets, 
the enneagram 
from Lull’s second 
combinatory fig- 
ure ascends into 
the super-celestial 
sphere. Here, it 
represents the 

3x 3 celestial hier- 
archies. 


According to the 
teachings of the 
pseudo-Dionysios 
Arepagita, the 
lowest rank of 
angels is the 
“purifying order”, 
the middle is the 
“illuminating 
order”, and the 
topmost is the 
“perfecting 
order”. 


As God “des- 
cended through 
the 3x3 divided 
angelic orders to 
us humans, so 
should we rise 
through the same, 
as on Jacob’s 
Ladder, to God”. 
(A. Kircher, 
Musurgia Univer- 
salis) 


A. Kircher, 


Arithmologia, 
Rome, 1665 


531 


Wheel 


Angels set in mo- 
tion the sphere of 
fixed stars, which 
in turn drives all 


the other spheres. 


Miniature, France, 
14th century 


532 


RoTATION: Wheel 


RoTaTION: Wheel 


Wheel 


Apart from the 
image of the egg, 
according to 
Hildegard von Bin- 
gen the wheel is 
the symbol best 
suited to explain- 
ing the working of 
the macrocosmic 
plan. And like the 
world, the god- 
head is entirely 
round like a wheel, 
circling in its love. 
The outer, fiery 
layer of divine 
anger consolidates 
the firmament, so 
that it does not 
flow away, the 
ethereal realm 
moves it, the re- 
gion of watery air 
moistens it, the 
animal-shaped 
winds keep it in 
circulation, and 
the lowermost 
layer of air awak- 
ens the green of 
the earth. This is 
represented here 
as the hub of the 
wheel of the world, 
criss-crossed by 
the spokes of the 
four seasons and 
parts of the world. 


Hildegard von 
Bingen, Liber 
Divinorum Operum, 
13th century 


533 


Wheel 


534 


Blake distinguished two kinds of machinery, representing two con- 
trasting expressions of time. Those that “revolve wheel within wheel 
in freedom, in harmony & peace” represent the creative time of 
Eden, in which all the events of the cosmic year exist permanently (at 
the top of the illustration). Los, the inner alchemist, forges them and 
must contantly rise and fall in the plan of creation, “lest a moment be 
lost”. 

The intertwined structures of Blake’s poems are based on a view 
of the simultaneity of all events in space and time, diametrically 
opposed to Newton’s world, simply and absolutely set in a place: 
“nebeneinander. Sounds solid: made by the mallet of Los demiurgos”. 
(J. Joyce, Ulysses) The various levels or dimensions in which events 
occur in parallel are transparent and open up, often with surprising 
shifts of perspective, one into the other. 

The second machinery (at the bottom of the illustration), the 
“wheel to wheel which with their teeth, under force, set each other 
tyrannically in motion”, represents the mechanical time of the 
industrial revolution: “Five, six: the Nacheinander”. (J. Joyce, Ulysses) 
It consists of a vicious circle of twenty-seven errors set before the 
creative present like a dulling filter. Bohme said one must “go from 
the illusion of historia into being”, and for Paracelsus, too, time was a 
purely qualitative concept that cannot be broken down into meas- 
urable units. For Blake, the chief purpose of his work in the present, 
iron age of Mnemosyne, memory, was “to restore what the Ancients 
call’d the Golden Age”. (A Vision of the Last Judgment) 

In hermetic philosophy, eternity is to time as the centre is to the 
periphery, or Sun-gold to Saturn-lead. The goal of the “Opus Mag- 
num” is the complete reversal of inside and outside, the rejuvenating 
return of old Chronos/Saturn to his original, paradisal state. Saturn 
also embodies sharpness of mind and analytical intelligence, and 
thus his reversal also means a transformation of thinking, for “think- 
ing is an excrescence of what has been, it is based entirely on the 
past (...) No human problem can be solved by thinking, since thinking 
itself is the problem. The end of knowledge is the beginning of wis- 
dom”. (J. Krishnamurti, /dea/ and Reality, Bern, 1992) 


RoTaTION: Wheel 


ROTATION: Wheel 


aye 


ee ier SOU E 


pene ) 
oe Eee | 
EY, 


Wheel 


The lower snake- 
cycle represents 
the scale of the 
twenty-seven 
eternal errors, into 
which the tran- 
sient individual 
imagines himself 
in the course of his 
earthly life. This 
cycle is divided 
into three large 
genealogical sec- 
tions: the first 
two, from Adam to 
Lamech and from 
Noah to Terah, 
mark the barbaric 
stage of religion, 
with human sacri- 
fices and punish- 
ments; the final 
stage, which leads 
back to the begin- 
ning, leads from 
Abraham via 
Moses and Con- 
stantine to Luther. 
It represents the 
discordant and 
militant condition 
of the state 
churches. 


W. Blake, 


Jerusalem, 
1804-1820 


535 


Wheel 


Using the “mill-wheel of the seven 
virtues”, in his “Buch der Heiligen 
Dreifaltigkeit”, Ulmannus established the 
following relationships: 


“Sobrietas moderation is Saturnus lead, 
Castitas modesty is Jupiter tin, humilitas 
humility is Mars iron, pietas mildness is 

Venus copper, Sanctitas holiness is Mer- 
curius quicksilver, caritas charity is Luna 
silver, puritas purity is Sol gold.” 


On the wheel, the planet-virtues are 
arranged in the precise sequence of the 


536 Rotation: Wheel 


planet-hours “as they follow one another 
day by day, year in year out and determine 
the activity of the alchemist” (W. Ganzen- 
miiller, Beitrage zur Geschichte der Tech- 
nologie und der Aichemie, Weinheim, 
1956): Mars-Sun-Venus-Mercury-Moon- 
Saturn-Jupiter. Thus, every day of the 
week begins with the hour of the planet it 
is called after. Thus, for exmple, the third 
hour of Wednesday (Mercury) is the hour 
of Saturn, and it “rests in coagulation”. 


Buch der Heiligen Dreifaltigkeit, 
early 15th century 


aici 
m—n¢ —_abheorefe — “yccauei pitb puis faprencia 


neh +b ne “ol —qanter—amim | 
é a ere 
mv. Pi, 


ik 
Nod {| 


% 


OR 


weet fier 
lacwam fi per p 


Setebes cv 


uz? OMUNgY waAvut—anGs 2If>—r 
wt-ongrofJo—tu 


ale aiifachefine chem 00 waft, dae 
ta mre he forecuge clemee dev tuft) 
A Soy 07). fevorsefe dag fenvufe clevnet d'erden 


SS aynug0 omy qu mo 


120 Opiate QD vise 


} 
t 


ROTATION: Wheel 


Wheel 


In Ulmannus, the 
following key is 
assigned to the 
seven planet- 
metals in the 
sequence Mars- 
Venus-Saturn- 
Jupiter-Mercury- 
Luna-Sol: 


alb|c|djelf |g 
hi [k fT [m[n]o 
piqiris|t 


It shows “the 
three degrees of 
all metals”, their 
trinitary birth in 
body, soul and 
spirit. Jupiter, in 
the fourth place 
(with the combina- 
tion dls), is givena 
particular mean- 
ing, as in Bohme’s 
system. Init the 
“twofold trinity” 
is divided into 
death and life, the 
inward world of 
light and the out- 
ward world of 
darkness. The 
virtue assigned 
to it, modesty, 

is the precondition 
forthe reception 
of the Mercurial 
Christ-Lapis. 


Buch der Heiligen 


Dreifaltigkeit, early 
75th century 


537 


Wheel 


“One the whole, 
the Point, the 
Center, the 
Circumference, 
and whatsoever 
is therein.” 


The wheel of the 
seven source-spir- 
its, which shows 
the dynamic, basic 
structure of the 
process of nature, 
is an eternal in- 
and outfolding of 
the divine un- 
ground, the three- 
in-one, miraculous 
eye of eternity. 
From the fourth, 
solar source-spirit, 
in which the dark 
and light qualities 
part, both the 
flash of enlighten- 
ment and the 
visible four- 
elemental world 
arise. 


D.A. Freher, 
Paradoxa 
Emblemata, manu- 
script, 18th century 


538 


One Ke whole, ihe ey lhe aa 
We Greumference , ar ee. 


u ea 3 


Mothing lo the Unwise: Cfo Fe 


SE, Sie: Yan eee 


RoTATION: Wheel RoTATION: Wheel 


Wheel 


“Tf | should de- 
scribe to you the 
godhead (...) in 
the greatest 
depth, it is thus: as 
if a wheel stood 
before you with 
seven wheels, one 
made into the 
other (...) Seven 
spirits of God. 
They are forever 
giving birth one to 
another, and it is 
as if when one 
turned one wheel, 
there were seven 
wheels inside one 
another, and one 
aways turned dif- 
ferently from the 
others, and the 
seven wheels were 
rimmed one within 
another like a 
round sphere. And 
the seven hubs in 
the middle were 
like one hub which 
moved around all 
over the place as it 
turned, and the 
wheels, forever 
giving birth to the 
same hubs, and 
the hub forever 
giving birth to the 
spokes of all seven 
wheels.” 


J. Bohme, 
Theosophische 
Wercke, 
Amsterdam, 1682 


539 


Wheel 


540 


“The birth of life winds as a wheel into it- 
self; and when it reaches the innermost 
point, it achieves freedom, not of God, 
but rather of the tincture from which life 
burns: for that which wishes to reach 
God must pass through fire; for no being 


RoTATION: Wheel 


reaches God unless it exists in fire, its own 
fire: If it were lit the world would melt. By 
this we do not mean the fire of the mon- 
ster, which is not fire but only harsh fury.” 
(J. Bohme) 


J. Bohme, Dreyfaches Leben, 1682 edition 


- 


John Bunyan, a lay preacher in an Engish 
Baptist community, wrote his edifying 
Puritan book, The Pilgrim’s Progress, 
between 1667 and 1678 while he was im- 
prisoned for preaching without a licence. 
The book is one of the most widely trans- 
lated works in world literature. 


The spiral map of the journey shows all the 
stages that the Pilgrim Christian passes 
through on his journey from the City of 
Destruction to the Celestial City of 
Jerusalem. At first, he almost sinks in the 


RoTATION: Wheel 


Wheel 


Slough of Despond, in the Valley of Humilia- 
tion he must fight with the heathen Apol- 
lyon. At Vanity Fair he is mocked, and later, 
with his companion Hopeful, he meets the 
giant Despair. In the vineyards and gardens 
of Beulah, the Land of Matrimony, the two 
are lovingly cared for before they must 
leave behind their “mortal garments” to 
cross the River of Death, for only in this 
way can they reach their goal, the Golden 
City of Jerusalem. 


From: Williams’ edition of ‘The Pilgrim’s 
Progress’, 79th century 


541 


Wheel Wheel 


A.Kircher, Oedipus 


Dee likened the origin of the planets to é 
Aegyptiacus, Rome, 


the metamorphosis of an egg made up of 


the four elements, which a scarab brings aa 1652-1654 
along a spiral path. At the end of the rota- 
tions, the white of the moon will have dis- y 
appeared beneath the yolk of the sun. The : i 
“Small Work” of the moon includes Saturn Idea Hiexrooly i 
in the first rotation, and in the second Bare Seas / 
Jupiter, the “Great Work” of the sun in- : 
cludes Mars and Venus. Mercury consists i 
of both qualities. 
John Dee, Monas Hieroglyphica, Antwerp, 
1564 1 
) 
’ 
q 
The scarab, the holy “ball-roller” of the } 
Egyptians, embodies the self-generating 4 
T-shaped, hermaphrodite principle of 
Sun-Osiris and Moon-lsis. Like the lapis, t 
it originates out of putrefied matter in the a 
form of a rotating ball of dung. The Egyp- : 
tians held this to be a symbol of the rising | 
sun, the ‘aurora’. Both, the Ouroboros and i 
the Scarab are an expression of the ‘hen 
to pan’, the eternal transformation of the 
Ever Unchanging. 
Johannes Macarius, Abraxas en Apistopistus, 
Antwerp, 1657 
Here, Kircher built on John Dee’s idea that spirit scarab winds further and further into 
the planetary metals arose from the spiral the physical periphery, to return from the 
paths of the hermaphrodite scarab, which outermost point of the earth: “For the 
represented the cosmic spirit. On the left, centre is nothing but a (...) circumference 
lie the planets of its solar male half, on wound around a “kleuel” (...). Just as the 
the right, those of the lunar female half. circumference (...) is an unwound centre 
The picture of the double helix shows a extended entirely. Hence Hermes says: 
reversal of internal and external which is (...) That what is below is like that which 
supposed to occur in the course of the is above (...)”. Julius Sperber, /sagoge, 
rotations in the Work. From its inner, invis- Deutsches Theatrum Chemicum, Nurem- 
ible centre in the upper spiral the cosmic berg, 1730) 
RoTaTION: Wheel 543 


542 RoTaTION: Wheel 


Wheel 


The ninth key of Basil Valentine describes 
the brightly coloured phase in the Work, 
called the “peacock’s tail”. It occurs under 
the rule of Venus in the sign of Libra, and 
shows that the matter is gradually drying. 
The threefold Ouroboros refers to the tria 
prima and the three large sections of the 
Work. The whole figure is based on the 
glyph & of the antimonic prima materia. 


D. Stolcius von Stolcenberg, Viridarium 
chymicum, Frankfurt, 1624 


Breath and the vivifying spirit, the pneuma 
of the alchemist, set in motion the Great 
Work, which consists of the transforma- 
tions of body, soul and spirit. “All things 
are brought together and all things are 
dissolved again (...) for nature, turned 
towards itself, transforms itself.” (Zosimo 
of Panopolis, 3rd century) 


Alchemistic manuscript, 17th century 


544 Rotation: Wheel 


Wh Tee Paee of One yield” 
lo that One again, uf thou 72 lernd- 
est to Ly 


On so doug carft thou te 
tect M oFi be. 
J 


ROTATION: Wheel 


Wheel 


“Give what thou 
hast of the One 
back to the One” 
(Thomas Vaughan 
alias Philalethes, 
Magia Adamica, 
London, 1650)” 


“What Thou hast 
of One yield to 
that One again, if 
thou intendest to 
keep it. Only by so 
doing canst thou 
be aperpetuum 
Mobile.” 


“See only the daily 
play of nature, 

its clouds and 
fogs, as an airy 
stage formed ina 
moment, returning 
to the earth’s 
womb. When the 
sun dries them up, 
it can absorb 
everything drawn 
up into the clouds 
and fallen down 
to it, and, like the 
philosophical 
dragon, devour its 
own tail.” 
(Thomas Vaughan, 
also known as 
Philalethes, Magia 
Adamica, London, 
1650) 


D.A. Freher, Para- 
doxa Emblemata, 
manuscript, 

18th century 


545 


Wheel 


This alchemical wheel with a crank is sup- 
posed to have been the mark of the Danzig 
monk Koffskhi. 


Like Dee’s Monas hieroglyph it is assem- 
bled from the various signs of the tria 
prima and the seven metals, on the basis of 
an inverted glyph of Mercury: “For quick- 
silver is a mother of all metals, and the Sun 
(...) itis also Sulphur.” 


Frater Vincentius Koffskhi, Hermetische 
Schriften (1478), Nuremberg edition, 1786 


The rotations 
should be repeat- 
ed “until the earth 
is heavenly and 
heaven is earthly 
and connected 
with the earth, 
then the Work is 
completed.” (D. 
Mylius, Philosophia 
reformata, Frank- 
furt, 1622) 


Marcel Duchamp, 
Rotorreliefs, 1935 


546 Rotation: Wheel 


Here Cadmus, the serpent-slayer who em- 
bodies the fixative properties of sulphur, 
is giving the philosophical colour-wheel its 
first rotation. Vulcan watches him attenti- 
vely from his threefold oven, for “the 
colours will teach you to rule fire” (Hein- 
rich Keil, Philosophisches Handbiichlein, 
Leipzig, 1736). The mercurial source mat- 
ter is shown as a chameleon with changing 
colours, the first phase of Saturn is black, 
Jupiter: ash-grey, the Moon: white, 
Venus, changes from bluish green toa 
pale red, Mars from reddish yellow to the 
bright colours of the peacock’s tail, and 
the sun tends from pale yellow towards 
the deep purple of the red dawn. “The 


RoTaTION: Wheel 


Wheel 


Circulatio of the Elements is effected by 
two kinds of wheel; a large and extended 
wheel, and a small or constricted wheel. 
The extended wheel fixes all the elements 
(through the sulphur) (...) The rotation of 
the small wheel is concluded with the ex- 
traction and preparation of every element. 
But in this wheel there are three circles 
which always drive the materials with 
unceasing and involved movements and 

in different ways (...) seven times at least.” 
(Chymisches Lustgartlein, Ludwigsburg, 
1744) 


Speculum veritatis, 17th century 


547 


Wheel 


D. Molinier, 
Alchemie de 
Flamel, 1772/73 


548 


Rhee. 


esate i ee 
Aer hee reflow ck 
qishpreen spate ant 
ful f 


The idea of the colour-circle develops out of the figure of the 
Ouroboros, constructed in the emblems of Nicolas Flamel from the 
two self-consuming dragons of light and darkness. The former 
symbolizes the dry, sulphurous principle; the latter he called the 
“volatile black woman”, mercurial moisture. 

According to Flamel’s theory, the sequence of colours in the 
Work arises out of the different levels of moisture in the matter. The 
deep black of cold wetness is followed by dark blue, light blue and 
yellow, in which the two extremes are in balance. After this comes 
the brightly coloured phase which ends in dry and hot, white-yellow. 
Through calcination this passes first to a yellow-red, and finally to 
the purple of the red lion, which rises above the zodiac or the colour- 
circle. 

“But they (the alchemists) drew no conclusions from all these 
observations, and the theory of chemical colours was not extended 
by it, as could and should have been the case”, wrote Goethe in his 
History of Colour Theory. 


ROTATION: Wheel 


“(...) the red of dawn is at the middle be- 
tween day and night, which shines with 
two colours, namely red and citrin (yellow). 
Likewise, this art produces Citrine and Red 
Colour, the two in the middle are black 
and white.” The red of dawn is “the end of 
the night, and a beginning of the day, and 
a mother of the sun. So the dawn at its 
greatest redness is an end of the whole 
darkness, and a banishment of night (...)”. 


RoTaTION: Wheel 


Wheel 


(Aurora consurgens) Purple is the indes« 
tructible sulphur, the fire of the lapis. 

In Goethe’s colour theory, purple is the 
supreme intensification of all colours, and 
“no one who knows the prismatic origin 

of purple will think it paradoxical if we 
claim that this colour (...) contains all other 
colours”. 


Aurora consurgens, early 16th century 


549 


Wheel 


550 


The basis of the alchemical colour con- 
cepts on which Kircher, Goethe and 
Steiner built, is the Gnostic idea of the 
“brightly coloured texture of the world”, 
from the dawning of the divine light in the 
darkness of the lower waters. According 
to Basilides, a 2nd-century Alexandrian 
Gnostic, darkness once wished to mix with 
light, but light restricted itself to pure 
looking “as through a mirror. A reflection, 
then, that is a breath (color!) of light only, 
reached the darkness”. (Werner Foerster, 
Die Gnosis: Zeugnisse der Kirchenvater, 
Zurich edition, 1995) Basilides likened the 
seed of the world to a peacock’s egg laid 
in the sublunary sphere into the seven- 
ness of the colours. 


Rotation: Wheel 


Paracelsus held Sulphur, the mediator 
between body and spirit, to be the ori- 
gin of the colours “probably because he 
was struck by the effect of acids on 
colour and colour phenomena, and acid 
is present to a high degree in common 
sulphur”. (Goethe, History of Colour 
Theory) And of course salt also plays an 
important sole, having been considered 
“coagulated light”, and the “ground of 
all physicality”. According to Paracelsus, 
the salt of fire gave rise to the colours of 
the rainbow. “(...) and as you see a fire 
flaming up (in individual colours) when a 
salt is cast therein (...) the rainbow 
shares its colours (...) which it has taken 
from the power of the salt-spirit that lies 
in the element of Fire”. (Paracelsus, De 
natura rerum, 1526) 


Colour wheel 
after R. Fludd, 
Medicina 
Catholica, 
Frankfurt, 1629 


flesh- 
coloured 


white yellow red blue 


the analogy between things and colours 


white yellow red blue 
pure light toned light coloured light shadow 
sweet medium sweet bitter sweet sour 
fire air/ether atmosphere water 
God angel man animal 
ROTATION: Wheel 


black 


black 
darkness 
bitter 
earth 
plant 


Wheel 


The creation of colours from the two polar 
principles of sulphur and mercury, sun and 
moon, fire and water, light and darkness. 


Initium sapientiae est timor domini, 
manuscript, 17th century 


In Kircher’s Ars magna lucis et umbrae, 
according to Goethe, “it is clearly and 
thoroughly demonstrated for the first 
time that light, shade and colour are to be 
understood as the elements of seeing; 
even if the colours are represented as the 
monstrous births of the first two”. 

(Colour Theory, 1810) 


His own colour theory had been kindled by 
the experiments of Newton, who had ar- 
rived at the conclusion that all colours are 
already potentially present in light, while 
for Kircher and Goethe they arose out of 
the mixture of light and darkness. For both 
of them, the phenomena of optics and 
colour theory were the expression of a 
universal bipolarity “like that handed 
down to us in the theory of magnetism, 
electricity and chemistry”. (Colour Theory, 
1810) 


A. Kircher, Ars magna lucis et umbrae, 1646 


551 


Wheel 


552 


In the beginning Newton’s God “created 
matter in massive, solid, hard, impene- 
trable and moving particles (...) so that 
nature would be of constant duration.” 
(Isaac Newton, Principia Mathematica, 
1686-1887). 


Even light, which was seen as the supreme 
manifestation of the divine in nature, con- 
sisted, in Newton’s view, of a stream of 
these hard little spheres (globuli) and like 
the heavenly bodies these were also sub- 
ject to the general law of gravity, which he 
had developed around 1680. He was in- 
spired to do this by the first three natural 
qualities in Jacob Bohme’s system: New- 
ton’s centripetal force corresponds to the 
first attracting source-spirit of Bohme, the 
“contracting astringency”, centrifugal force 
corresponds to “extending bitterness”, 
and the rotation that arises from the con- 


IDEALES 
Liche 


ROTATION: Wheel 


flict between attraction and repulsion is 
“anxiety” or the “birth-wheel of 

nature”, the third source-spirit. And just 
as, in Newton’s colour theory, white light, 
hitherto considered elemental, was now 
seen as composed from the seven colours 
of the spectrum, in the work of Bohme, 
too, light is seen as being born from all 
seven source-spirits at once. 


But Goethe, too, who was suspicious of 
Newton because of the ‘mystical’ number 
seven, was able to find much that he 
needed in BOhme’s rich trove of visionary, 
natural mystical concepts, concerning 
both the ‘sensual and moral effect of 
colours’ and its origins from the polarities. 
For Bohme, white is the only colour that 
lies not in the ‘mystery of nature’, but 

in the deity. It is “the son of God” who 
“shines into the sea of nature” (Jacob 
Bohme, Aurora), and 
black is the cabbalistic 
En-Soph, the divine 
non-being underlying 
the diversity of all phe- 
nomena. 


i “Many things can be 
schematized in the 

triangle, as can the 
colour phenomena, 
in such a way that 
through doubling and 
limitation one arrives 
at the old, mysterious 
hexagon.” (Goethe, 
Colour Theory, 1810) 


From: P.O. Runge, 
Posthumous writings, 
1810 


‘ 
Re i wy, 
” My, 
%G 


% 


| i ; 


Wa pees 
ie 


Ue : ’ 
Ue. “eet ; il Mi 

Dk EMIS | 
cori 1519 | 
(ips onan 


Nie 


fae ofsactreud THY 
Jas yl es Lia 
va) (C LesusMaxavenus Bes 
HY, A 


ile Luttornm z 


Bolas 
ema ww we 
BY G Canin ie 


SY 


RoTATION: Wheel 


Wheel 


“We recognize the 
essence of the 
Holy Trinity in the 
light of eternity 
for the deity (top), 
and in the fire for 
eternal nature 
(bottom).” The 
celestial majesty 
of the divine son 
stands in the head 
of the lower nat- 
ural world in the 
image of the tor- 
tured Jesus as the 
mocked king of 
the Jews. From the 
“Centrum Naturae’, 
the salnitric cross- 
ground, there 
emerges in various 
degrees of the 
mixture of fire and 
water the mystery 
of colours. 

1. Blue: entity 

2. Red: father in 
the brilliance of 
fire 

3. Green: life 

4. Yellow; son 

5. White: bril- 
liance of Gad’s 
majesty as a quint- 
essence. 


J. Bohme, 
Theosophische 
Wercke, 
Amsterdam, 1682 


553 


Wheel 


Influenced by 
Jacob B6hme’s 
writings, which 
the writer Ludwig 
Tieck had recom- 
mended to him in 
1801, P.O. Runge 
began to develop 
his own mystical 
colour theory, 
which he applied 
in all his painting. 
He assigned the 
three basic colours 
to the divine trin- 
ity: blue - God the 
father, red -son 
and yellow — holy 
spirit. 


The source of the 
three-dimensional 
arrangement of 
the colours on the 
sphere lay in the 
main colours being 
complemented by 
the two poles of 
light and darkness 
to form the quin- 
ticity of the pure 
elements. 


554 


LA ea) pasa Hole, 


as 


acd, does Uyunter i 


B 


RoTaTION: Wheel 


q bei 


tech the beya Lele 


aia 


RoTATION: Wheel 


Wheel 


Goethe tried to 
connect the qual- 
ities of colours as 
experienced by 
the senses with 
ethical categories. 
Here he assigns 
the four spiritual 
capacities of man 
to the six colours 
of his circle: to the 
plus or day-side of 
the warm colours 
he attributes 
reason and intelli- 
gence, to the 
minus or night- 
side of the cold 
colours sensuality 
and imagination. 


On this “rose of 
the humours”, 

a collaboration 
between Goethe 
and Schiller in 
1799, the four 
humours of man 
are assigned to 
Goethe’s colour 
circle. 


555 


Rose 


“The cross stands wound densely round 
with roses./ Who has put roses on the 
cross?/(...) And from the middle springs 
a holy life/ Of threefold rays from a single 
point (...).” (Goethe, Die Geheimnisse, 
1784-1786) 


In alchemy, the white and the red rose are 
well-known symbols for the lunar and the 
solar tincture, from which the “precious 
rose-coloured blood” of Christ-Lapis 
flows. And the Shehina, the brilliance of 
celestial wisdom on earth, is understood 
in the image of the rose, and “the collec- 


556 RoTaTION: Rose 


tion of honey” stands for the common 
inheritance of theosophical knowledge. 
“Thus the whole parable of the Song of 
Solomon finally refers to the object of our 
rose-cross (...): ‘lam the rose of Sharon 
and the lily of the field’. As regards “the 
correct procedure for attaining the rose- 
red blood of the cross that is poured (as 
quintessence) in the centre of the cross”, 
Fludd used the image of wisdom: the work 
of the architect as a labourer of God on 
the building of the temple 


R.Fludd, Summum Bonum, Frankfurt, 1629 


ROTATION: Rose 


Rose 


I make honey 


The death of the cross was accursed 

In the view of God 

Now it is entirely lovely 

Through the judgement of Christ’s death. 


Daniel Cramer, Emblemata Sacra, 1617 


The name and emblem of the Rosicrucian 
brotherhood refer to Martin Luther’s coat 
of arms. The “General Reformation” that 
it had proclaimed at the beginning of the 
17th century was a revival of Protestantism 

which had sunk into orthodoxy - through 
the spirit of Paracelsian nature mysticism. 
One declared goal was the struggle 
against the “tyranny of the Pope”, whicha 
few years previously had burned Giordano 
Bruno at the stake. 


Van der Heyden, detail, from: Sigiflum 
Lutheri, Strasbourg, 1617 


557 


Pilgrim 


The evening before 
Easter an angel 
gives the legend- 
ary founder of 

the Rosicrucian 
order, Christian 
Rosencreutz, an 
invitation to the 
mystical wedding 
of bride and 
bridegroom. With 
a blood-red sash 
hung across his 
white apron, and 
with four red roses 
on his hat, he sets 
off the following 
day. 


In Andreae’s unin- 
spired and over- 
loaded Baroque 
allegory the al- 
chemical symbol- 
ism appears only 
asa rather tired 
backdrop. In our 
own time, Rudolf 
Steiner and the 
modern Rosicru- 
cian associations 
have subjected the 
Work to a number 
of thorough and 
serious interpreta- 
tions. 


Johann Valentin 
Andrea, Die 
Alchemische 
Hochzeit von Chris- 
tian Rosenkreuz 
(1676), Ed. J. van 
Rijckenborgh, 1967 


558 


RoTaTION: Pilgrim 


“Are we not all, here below, ona pilgrim- 
age to the land where our saviour Christ 
has gone before us? (...) Great Phoebus 
himself, the God of the Sun, travels across 
the broad sky day after day. The heart of 
man beats and pulses in his breast from 
the first hour of life to the last (...) The 
trader crosses land and water to buy pro- 
duce from the most far-off lands; but 
more worthy goods by far are knowledge 
and science. They are the goods of the 
spirit. (...) For all these reasons | had the 


Rotation: Pilgrim 


i 


Ayn 


Ee 


ae 


idea that it would be both interesting, 
pleasant, worthy and also extraordinarily 
profitable for me to follow the example of 
the whole world and undertake a pilgrim- 
age with the goal of discovering that won- 
derful bird the Phoenix (Lapis).” (Michael 
Maier, “Secreta Chymiae, Die Geheimnisse 
der Alchemie”, in: Musaeum Hermeticum, 
Frankfurt, 1678) 


Salomon Trismosin, Aureum vellus, 
Hamburg, 1708 


Pilgrim 


559 


Pilgrim 


Pilgrim’s dream: 

“| dreamed, and 
behold, |sawa 
man clothed with 
rags, standingina 
certain place, with 
his face turned 
away from his own 
house, a book in 
his hand, anda 
great burden upon 
his back.” Aman 
called Evangelist 
meets him and ad- 
vises him to flee 
“the wrath to 
come”. “Do you 
see yonder narrow 
gate?” The man 
said, “No”. (...) 
“Do you see yon- 
der shining light? 
(...) Keep that light 
in your eye, and go 
up directly 
thereto: so shalt 
thou see the gate; 
at which, when 
thou knockest, it 
shall be told thee 
what thou shalt 
do”. John Bunyan, 
The Pilgrim’s 
Progress, 1678) 


W. Blake, IHlustra- 
tion to Pilgrim’s 
Progress, 
1824-1827 


560 


“The Door of Death is made of Gold, that Immortal Eyes cannot behold.” 


ROTATION: Pilgrim RoTATION: Pilgrim 


Pilgrim 


Blake developeda 
special process of 
relief etching, 
transferring his 
drawings and 
texts to the cop- 
per plates with an 
acidic fluid and 
corroding away 
the spaces with ni- 
tric acid. This 
process enabled 
him, as in this illus- 
tration, to com- 
bine black-lined 
contours with 
white-lined hatch- 
ing. (Discussed in 
greater detail in: 
D.W. Dorrbecker, 
Konvention und In- 
novation, Berlin, 
1992). This reversal 
of gravure into 
relief printing 

is constantly 
reflected in his 
poetry: the gaps 
are the “tempor- 
ary individual 
states” that disap- 
pear in the pur- 
ging fires of the 
Last Judgment. 
What remains 

are the “eternal 
lineaments”, the 
“signatures of all 
things”. 


W. Blake, Death's 
Door, c. 1806/07 


561 


Pilgrim 


In Amos Come- 
nius’ 1631 
“Labyrinth of 

the World” the 
Saviour appears 

in person to the 
pilgrim at the end 
of his wanderings: 
“| saw you when 
you wandered; 
but, my dear son, 

I wanted no longer 
to wait for you; 

so | brought you to 
yourself and into 
your own heart.” 
So that he may 
now see the world 
from the correct 
perspective, he is 
given a new pair 
of spectacles. 

“Its frame was the 
word of God, the 
glass was the Holy 
Spirit.” 


D.A. Freher, Para- 
doxa Emblemata, 
manuscript, 

78th century 


562 


Ofhere 18 no coming be Ke 1% 
wtf Z. 


Ov77e 


Rotation: Pilgrim 


o7eze ¢ 


7Y9 ; 


and none, corlhowt gorrg abou 


Rotation: Pilgrim 


Pilgrim 


The soul of the 
Christian pilgrim is 
guided by the 
word of God: 


“O that my paths 
may be guided/ to 
keep Thy laws 
(Psalm 118, 5)/ In 
the tangled maze/ 
With all its twists 
and turns/ | walk 
and will without 
fear await/ The 
help promised by 
Thy Word./ From 
far away | see that 
here and there 
some will fall/ 
Who are otherwise 
cautious enough 
and probably the 
boldest:/ 1 go 
blindly onwards 
and my arts are all 
in my devotion to 
Thee my friend!/ 
(...) This life is a 
maze;/ That the 
journey may be 
safe/ Thou must 
without guile wait 
in blind faith for 
God/ In pure love 
without artifice.” 


Hermann Hugo, 
Gottselige 
Begierde, 
Augsburg, 1622 


563 


Pilgrim 


St James was the 
patron saint of 
physicians and al- 
chemists. Accord- 
ing to the ‘Le- 
genda aurea’, in 
Spain he defeated 
“Hermogenes” 

or “Hermes 
Trismegistus” 

and was therefore 
in charge of his 
secret knowledge. 


The route to his 
grave in Santiago 
de Compostela 
was seen as the 
earthly projection 
of the Milky Way, 
“the road to St 
lago”, the symbol 
of the Mercurial 
Work. “Narrow 
and slippery is the 
way,” as one Ger- 
man hymn to St. 
James from 1553 
has it, “surround- 
ed by water and 
fire”. But the 
Hermetic pilgrims 
were not only in 
search of religious 
edification; they 
were also eager to 
encounter Jewish 
and Arab secret 
knowledge that 
began to spread 
into Christian Eu- 
rope from Spain in 
the 12th century. 


Stephan Praun’s 


pilgrim’s costume, 
1571 


564 


Rotation: Pilgrim 


“In secret symbolism, the ‘Compostela 
scallop’ (coquille St. Jacques) (...) repres- 
ents the principle of Mercury, which is still 
called the ‘traveller’ or the ‘pilgrim’. In the 
mystical sense it is worn by all those (...) 
who try to obtain the star (Lat. compos: 
possessing, stella: star).” 


In order to decipher his mysterious bark 
codex in the early 15th century, Nicolas 
Flamel called upon the support of St James 


ROTATION: Pilgrim 


and set off for Santiago, “That is the point 
at which all alchemists must begin. With 
their pilgrim’s staff as a guide and the 
scallop as a sign, they must undertake this 
long and dangerous journey, half on water, 
half on land. First as pilgrims, then as 
pilots.” (Fulcanelli/Canseliet, Le Mystére 
des Cathédrales, Paris, 1925, 1964 edition) 


Joseph Beuys, Palazzo Regale, 1985 


Pilgrim 


565 


Pilgrim 


“Let us leave 
theories there and 
return to here’s 
hear.” (J. Joyce, 
Finnegans Wake) 


Marcel Duchamp, 
Door as a substitute 
for two doors, 
Paris, 1927 


566 


ROTATION: Pilgrim 


A 

ab Indagine (Johannes 
von Hagen) 470 p. 

Abif, Hiram 193, 283 
Abraxas 542 p. 

Adam 11, 26, 74, 107, 145, 
148-157, 168, 183, 206, 
217, 338, 372 p., 426, 476, 
483, 512, 522, 525, 535, 
see also Adam Cadmon 
Adam Cadmon 19, 149, 
267, 442 

Aeneas 261 

Aguilonius, Franciscus 55, 
231,511 

Actaeon 377, 415 

Albedo 29, 103, 140, 208, 
291, 311, 321, 362, 414, 
514, see also Diana 
Albion 340, 426, 442, 525 
Alchemy 8, 11, 13 p., 17, 
21-33, 90, 111, 149, 192, 
196, 206, 226, 228, 238, 
304, 313, 325, 365, 374, 
380, 388, 394, 398, 400 
Pp., 446, 482, 519 p., 530, 
536, 548, 556, 559 
Alchimia (as symbolic fig- 
ure) 303, 324 p., 410, 418 
Alembic (still-head) 146, 
189, 328, 386 

Alighieri, Dante 41 

Alum 167 

Ammonia 304, 312, 516 
Andreae, Johann Valentin 
280, 287, 558, see also 
Rosicrusians 

Androgyny 19, 149, 152, 
220, 370-376, 401, 513, 
see also Hermaphrodite; 
Rebis 

Angels, hierarchies of, 
choirs 40, 42 p., 85, 150, 
243,531 

Animal Riddles 288-301 
Ankh (Egyptian symbol) 
348, 480 

Antimony 115, 118, 167, 
171, 173, 179, 278, 286, 
288, 298, 311, 327, 416, 
544, see also Saturn 

Ape of Art 405, 409 
Aphrodite 11, 310 

Apian, Peter 69 p. 

Apollo 31, 61, 63 p., 84, 
86, 123, 174 p., 175, 223, 
229, 304, 306, 310, 312, 
345, 399, 414, 464, 559, 
see also Gold; Sol 
Apprentice 253, 258, 305, 
473, see also Prima Materia 
Archeus 202, 396, 406, 
448, 453, 466, 525, see 
also Fire, secret; Los; 
Vulcan 

Archontes 38, 448 
Areopagita, Pseudo- 


INDEX 


Dionysius 40, 237, 243, 
410, 531 

Aries 28, 36, 134, 304, 307 
P., 393, 418, 456 

Aristotle 13, 17, 26 p., 50, 
77, 94, 227, 278, 458, 519 
Arsenic 288 

Artista, Elias 391 

Ash 143, 180, 185, 190, 
198, 288, 301, 322, 361, 


390 p. 

Ashmole, Elias 143 

Astral Bodies 19, 150, 336, 
421, 448 

Astral (cosmic) Spirit 155, 
241, 445 p., 543 
Astrology see Zodiac; 
Horoscope 

Astronomy 28, 48, 52 pp., 
80, 204, 466, 517 

Athonor (Oven) 142-143, 
314, 416 

Atman 526 

Augustine 219 

Aurora (Dawn) 75, 76, 
140, 144, 149, 164, 166, 
169, 171, 180 p., 184, 
201-215, 284, 286, 294 p., 
301, 319, 324 P., 355, 376, 
383, 398, 417, 442, 447, 
522, 542, 547, 549, 552 
Avicenna (Ibn Sina) 104 
Azoth 114, 119 pp., 129, 
188, 269, 278, 334, 414 p. 


B 

Balneum (water-bath) 
142, 145, 311 

Barbault, Armand 320, 
330 

Barchusen, J. C. 114-133 
Basilide 550 

Basilisk 301 

Becher, Johann J. 109, 
165, 289 

Berdyaev, Nicolas 219 
Berkley, George 226 
Bernus, Alexander von 
192, 239, 336, 394 
Besant, Annie 489 p., 491, 


494 p- 

Beuys, Joseph 529, 565 
Bina 262, 266, see also 
Sephiroth 

Bingen, Hildegard von 
108, 439, 533 

Birds 136, 168, 261, 
288-289, 291-296, 307, 
312, 383, 407, 478 

Blake, William 8, 21, 23, 
55, 65, 67, 91, 106 p., 114, 
147 P., 150, 158, 201-203, 
219, 225, 256 p., 277, 339 
P., 351, 353, 372, 395, 
397, 426, 442-443, 458, 
465, 496 p., 506, 510-513, 
520, 524, 534. p., 560 p. 


Blue Flower 342, 422 
Blavatsky, Helena P. 348 
p., 489, 513 

Blood, Blood Corpuscles 
105, 126, 135, 158, 170, 
298, 320, 327, 337, 339 
P., 363, 371, 417, 419, 421, 
423-427, 456, 556 

Boaz 167, 255, 258, 286, 
413 

Bodies, Human 225, 436, 
451, 453-457 

Bodies, Platonic 504 p. 
Boethius 85, 219 

Bohme, Jacob 11, 15, 23, 
26, 38, 75, 92, 106, 
149-152, 171, p., 178, 182 
P., 201, 210-217, 218-222, 
224 p., 236, 265, 272, 278, 
346 pp., 372, 374, 382 p., 
388, 394, 421, 425 p., 426, 
444-447, 449, 466, 490, 
508 p., 515 p., 520 pp., 
534, 537-540, 552 pp. 
Book of the Holy Trinity 
(Buch der Heiligen Drei- 
faltigkeit) see Ulmannus 
Bosch, Hieronymus 12, 
113, 403 

Brahe, Tycho 48, 52 p., 55 
Brahma 334, 434. 

Brant, Sebastian 461 
Brothers, Richard 277 
Bruno, Giordano 13, 48, 
82, 236, 247, 350, 377, 
415, 421, 472, 503, 557 
Bry, Theodor de 15, 436 
Bull 28, 259, 304, 307 p., 
315, 388, 456, 520 
Bunyan, John 541, 560 


Cc 

Cabala 14, 17, 20f., 38, 45 
p., 89 p., 92, 208, 218, 
262, 265, pp., 280, 421, 
448, 451 

Cabalistic Worlds 93, 241, 
262, 451, 457 

Caduceus 135, 155, 208, 
312, 332, 334, 335, 338 
Calcinatio (oxidization) 
28, 142, 180, 185, 362, 
548 

Canseliet, Eugéne 304, 
313, 565, see also Fulca- 
nelli 

Capella, Martianus 86 
Cardanus, Hieronymus 


467 

Celestial Script 477, 

484 p. 

Celtis, Conrad 410 pp. 
Chakra 275, 334, 447 
Chaos 18, 26, 94, 96, 103, 
107, 112, 115, 143, 149, 
158-170, 204, 219, 223, 
299, 328, 344, 333, 423, 


Index 


567 


Index 


568 


498, see also Prima Mate- 
ria; Saturn 

Chi (X) 90, 319, 513 
Chiromancy 462, 468-471 
Chladni, Ernst 502 
Chochma 262, 266, 272, 
404, 509, see also Sephi- 
roth, Sophia 

Christ 23, 30, 42 p., 63, 
78, 152, 157, 208, 279, 
319, 329, 372, 374, 388, 
394, 419-423, 425, 426, 
440, 444, 513, 521P., 553, 


559 

Christ-Lapis 388, 
420-423, 537, 556 
Cronus see Saturn 

Cicero 411 

Circle 51, 63, 66, 68, 73, 
105, 217, 270, 278, 343 p., 
378, 432, 437, 480, 
507-511, 523, 555, see al- 
so hen to pan; Ouroboros 
Coagula see Solve & Coa- 
gula 

Cohn, Tobias 457 
Colours in the Work 32, 
136, 342, 378, 393, 
547-550, 553, 555 
Comenius, Amos 562 
Compass 253, 379, 408, 
438, 452, 506 p., 510, 511 
Conjunctio 23, 120, 157, 
208, 354-369 
Copernicus, Nikolaus 48, 
53, 57 pp., 106 

Corpus Hermeticum 
20-23, 60, see also 
Hermes Trismegistus 
Cosmic Egg 106-109 
Cosmic Man 434, 441, 442 
Cosmic Music (harmony 
of the spheres) 84-89 
Cosmic Soul 19, 48, 56, 
90, 453 

Cosmic Time 72-75, 211 
P., 217, 444 
Cosmological Systems 
48-63 

Croll, Oswald 390 

Cross 78, 183, 197 p., 329, 
388, 480, 490, 517, 520, 
558, 522, 553, 556 p. 
Cusanus, Nikolaus of 
Cusa 48 p., 159, 236 p., 
242, 247, 452 


D 

Dante see Alighieri 
Darwin 219 

Dawn see Aurora 

Decay see Putrefactio 
Dee, John 106, 480, 513, 
542 p., 546 

Deism 21, 510 

Della Porta, Giambattista 
230, 462 p. 


INDEX 


Demiurge 18-20, 23, 38, 
158, 534 

Democritus 7, 19, 32 
Descartes, René 228, 287, 
460, 496 pp., 511 

Dew 37, 47, 191, 233, 238, 
262, 267, 302-321, 330, 
367, 370, 387, 392, 513 
Distillation 23, 28, 94, 
112, 114, 119, 122-125, 128, 
131, 142, 171, 176, 181, 309 
PP., 330, 340, 392, 416 
Diana 229, 304, 306, 311 
P-, 377, 399, 414 p., see 
also Albedo, Whitening, 
Luna 

Digestion 28, 138, 192, 
309 p. 

Dionysios 22, 223 

Dragon 70, 115, 135, 138, 
173, 179, 227, 239, 273, 
288, 301, 332, 340, 343, 
354. pp-., 400, 417, 488, 
545, 548 

Duchamp, Marcel 546, 
566 

Direr, Albrecht 12, 19, 67, 
134, 410 pp., 430, 468 


E 

Eagle 148, 229, 288, 294, 
296, 301, 376, 388, 520 
Ear 85, 257, 456, 474, 513, 


525 

Egg, philosophical 106, 
170, 300, 385, 396-403, 
542, see also Cosmic Egg 
Eleazar, Abraham (Pseu- 
do-) 179, 327-331, 341, 
416 


Elements (four) 26, 44, 
50, 88, 90, 94, 96-101, 115 
p., 119, 169, 269, 278, 284, 
346, 358 p., 375, 380, 
388, 399, 401, 408, 410, 
480, 517, 519, see also 
Zoas 

Elixir 28, 36, 137, 193, 
285, 324, 329, 362 p., 
384, 408 

Emanation 150, 340, 372, 
406, 426, see also Sophia 
Emblems 115, 149, 224, 
274, 340, 380, 397, 403, 
482, 508, 538, 548, 557, 


562 

Emerald Tablet 8f., 20, 
112, 294 

Empedocles 22 pp., 519 
Empyrean 87, 95, 99 p., 
108, 235, 242 

En-Sof, Ensoph 159, 210, 
247, 264, 404, 444, 508, 
538, 552, see also Sephi- 
roth, Unground 
Enlightenment 21 
Enneagram, theory 65, 


248, 527-531, see also 
Gurdjieff 

Erugiena, John Scotus 
243 

Esh see Schamayim 

Ether 17, 23, 48, 51, 95, 99 
Pp., 106, 108, 226, 235, 
242, 336, 348, 379, 405, 
453, 459, 494, 504, 533 
Ethiopians 177 p., see also 
Nigredo, Putrefactio 
d’Espagnet, J. 30 p., 112, 
178, 409 

Eve 183, 338, 372 

Eye 50, 103-106, 215, 219, 
333, 358, 458, 474, 489, 
491, 497, 511, 538 

Ezekiel 442, 524 


F 

Fantasy 19, 67, 228, 525, 
555 

Fermentation, Fermenta- 
tio 22, 28, 195 pp., 324, 
393 
Ficino, Marsilio 21 p., 60, 
236, 430, 482 

Fiore, Joachim von 12, 75 
Fire 50, 295, 335, 372, 
390-395, 439, 540, 553 
Fire-Crack see Fire, se- 
cret; Salnitre 

Fire, outer 23, 99, 114, 
132, 142, 180 p., 239, 392 
Fire, phases 23, 134, 239, 
392 

Fire, secret 23, 26, 37, 99, 
114, 153, 181, 202, 239, 
304, 309, 311p., 390, 391, 
394, 416, see also Salnitre 
Fixatio 28, 126, see also 
Rubedo 

Flamel, Nicolas 76, 179, 
207, 327, 329 p., 332, 416, 
548, 564 

Flood 288, see also Noah; 
Sea of Time and Space 
Fludd, Robert 15, 45 p., 
56 p., 60 p., 73, 90, 
93-102, 105, 222 p., 232 
P., 235 p., 242, 245, 274, 
287, 379, 404, 436, 448, 
450-454, 459-462, 501, 
507, 514-516, 528, 550, 
556 

Fortress 273-287 
Frankenberg, Abraham 
von 219, 278, 421 
Freemasons 22, 25, 47, 
62, 167, 193 p., 253, 258, 
452,501 

Freher, Dionysos Andreas 
150-157, 221, 224, 241, 
382, 445 pp., 508 p., 538, 
545, 562 

Fulcanelli 178, 208, 304, 
338, 394, 410, 512, 565 


G 

Gebura 222, 262, see also 
Sephiroth 

Ghost 150, 372, 520 
Gichtel, Georg 210, 265, 
380, 449, 520 

Giorgio, Francesco 242, 
430, 435 

Giorgione 12, 413 
Glauber, Johann R. 302 
Glockendon, Nikolaus 134 
Gnosis 17 pp., 21, 38 p., 
208,550 

Goethe, Johann Wolf- 
gang von 134, 163, 219, 
226, 229, 231, 238, 343, 
462, 500, 520, 548-552, 


555 p.- 

Gold 14, 48, 96, 115 pp., 
172 p., 197, 341, 424, 534 
Gold, material 23, 31, 33, 
206, 375, 384, see also 
Sun, black 

Gold, philosophical 14, 18, 
23, 62, 141, 363, see also 
Elixir; Lapis; Sun, spiri- 
tual 

Great Year 72, 345, 430, 
534, see also Cosmic Time 
Gunas 91 

Gurdjieff, G. 1. 65, 88, 
248, 527-530 


H 

Hagen, Johannes von see 
ab Indagine 

Halchimia 394, see also 
Salt 


Hand of the Philosopher 
172, 300, 402 

Hare 259 

Heart 12, 56, 101, 163, 
202, 222, 252, 339, 383, 
405, 414, 423, 425, 453, 
455 P., 471, 474, 483, 516, 
521, 560, 562 

Hen to pan 542 
Heraclitus 23 
Hermaphrodite 11, 372, 
374, 382 p., see also An- 
drogyny, Rebis 
Hermeneutics 9 

Hermes see also Mercury, 
Trismegistus 

Hermes - Mercury (as 
messenger of the gods 
and asa planet) 8 p., 13, 
140, see also Mercury, 
Hermes Trismegistus 
Hermes Trismegistus (as 
messenger of the gods 
and as Pharoah) 8 p., 12, 
20, 27, 59, 84, 88, 112, 
294, 323, 354, 430, 482, 
506, 543, 564, see also 
Emerald Tablet 
Hermetic Chain 12, 14 


INDEX 


Hexagram (Solomon’s 
Seal) 152, 157, 380, 552 
Hieroglyphs 8, 12, 17, 248, 
294, 345, 410, 461, 477 P., 
480, 482, 508 

Horapollo 12 p., 345 
Horoscope 67, 78 pp. 
Horus 345 

Hugo von St. Viktor 219 
Humours (four) 26, 44, 
104, 410, 437, 469, 514, 
517, 519, 522,555 


I 

latrochemistry 192, 325, 
336 

Idealism, German 11, 23, 
218 

Imagination 8 p., 19, 23, 
25, 67, 107, 147, 202, 210, 
245, 421, 425, 443, 458, 
506, 510, 525 

lodine 448 

Isis 345, 474, 542 


J 

Joachin und Boaz 167, 
255, 258, 413 

Jacob’s Ladder 161, 243, 
251, 253, 257, 305, 531 
James, St 257, 564 p. 
Jamnitzer, Wenzel 505 
Jennis, Lucas 15 
Jerusalem 8, 23, 55, 67, 
105, 276-279, 340, 372, 
426, 458, 521, 524p., 541 
Jesus see Christ 

John the Evangelist 388, 
520 

Journeyman 193, 254 p., 
283 

Joyce, James 11, 91, 193, 
264, 321, 348, 364, 426, 
442, 494,511 pp., 523, 
534, 566 

Jung, C. G. 11, 78, 208, 
365 

Jupiter 18, 38, 42, 48, 53, 
66, 136, 171, 174 p., 183, 
220, 302, 307, 375, 388, 
391, 414, 446, 455 


K 

Kandinsky, Wassily 348, 
489,527 

Kenoma 17 

Kepler, Johannes 58, 69, 
84, 88, 219, 480, 503 p. 
Kerner, Justinus 483, 486, 
500 

Kether 104, 262, 264, 266 


p- 
Khunrath, Heinrich 9, 103, 
204, 271 p., 272 p., 299, 
308, 344, 409, 423 

King 61, 134, 141, 145, 173, 
180, 186-188, 191 pp., 


205, 208, 301, 302, 329, 
331, 341, 345, 356, 358, 
361, 363, 366, 370, 382, 
390, 513, 553, see also Ru- 
bedo; Sulphur; Lapis 
Kircher, Anastasius 15 p., 
52, 85, 86, 88, 109, 162 
Pp., 229, 230, 237, 243, 
248 p., 345, 412, 435, 455, 
469, 473, 475-479, 480, 
543, 550 p. 

Kirchweger, A. J.199, 
238, 304, 357 

Klimakos, John 251 
Koffsky, Frater Vincen- 
tius 423, 546 
Krishnamurti, J. 349, 534. 
Kundalini 333 p., 447 


L 
Labyrinth 36 p., 69, 562 


p. 
Ladder 237-259 

Ladder to Heaven see 
Jacob's Ladder 
Lambsprinck 290, 296 p., 
386 

Language (primal) 12, 217, 
476, 482 p., 490 

Lapis 14, 23, 26 pp., 76, 
TI1TpP., 114. p., 123, 
125-128, 130, 149, 164, 
167, 192, 207, 226, 253, 
259, 273, 278, 284, 286, 
298, 304, 334 P., 339, 371, 
375, 377, 382, 385, 388, 
398 p., 401, 407, 417, 419, 
452, 512, 542, 549,559, 
see also Christ«Lapis 

Last Judgement 146 p., 
561 

Latona 119, 399, 414 
Lavater, Johann C. 462, 
464, 467 

Lead 18, 48, 171, 174, 534, 
536, see also Antimony, 
Saturn 

Leadbeater, Charles W. 
334, 489 p., 491, 494 p. 
Life 99, 102, 134, 158, 219 
P., 395, 403, 415, 483, 
516, 540, 563 

Leibniz, Gottfried Wil- 
helm 247 

Libavius, Andreas 14 
Lichtenberg, G. C. 462 
Light 26 p., 38, 41, 56, 60, 
94 P., 97, 100-102, 171, 
186, 188, 195, 211, 
216-236, 241, 253, 258, 
263, 272, 278 p., 284, 
306, 315, 319, 348, 376, 
394, 405, 409, 425, 438, 
452, 472, 488 p., 507, 513, 
515, 520, 548, 550, 552, 
554, 562 

Light and Darkness 17, 


Index 


569 


Index 


570 


151, 214-236, 241, 262, 
446, 512, 537 p. 

Lily 211, 217, 343, 422, 
444, 556, see also Blue 
Flower 

Lion 28, 36, 115, 118, 134, 
138, 148, 205, 288, 297, 
352, 388, 418, 456, 519 
Lion, green 138, 288, 298 
p., 308, 320 

Lion, red 207 p., 288, 298, 
548, see also Fixatio, 
Lapis 

Los, Los-Urthona 8 p., 
107, 202 p., 426, 458, 525, 
534, see also Sol; Imagi- 
nation 

Lucifer 28, 38, 74, 107, 
149, 151, 154 p., 160, 222, 


375 

Lull, Ramon 144, 246 pp., 
250, 412, 530 p. 

Luna 123, 141, 196, 198, 
208, 220, 259, 288, 321, 
354 P., 365 P., 370, 374 
P.; 377, 388, 415, see Dia- 
na; Sophia 

Luria, Isaak 263, 265 pp. 
Luther, Martin 146, 280, 
535,557 


M 

Magia naturalis 462 
Magnet, Magnetism 19, 
167, 173, 239, 281, 483, 
494-501, 551 

Magnus, Albertus 411 
Maier, Michael 10, 15, 29, 
145, 173, 174, 187 P., 239, 
278, 285, 289, 292, 
295-298, 322, 340, 343 
P., 354, 370, 372, 378, 
380, 392, 394, 396, 409, 
414, 436, 559 

Mayim see Schamayim 
Malchut 262, 266, see al- 
so Luna; Matrix; Sophia 
Mandala 275, 381 

Mars 18, 38, 48, 53, 66, 
137, 183, 220, 375, 388, 
396, 504, 506, 520, 536 
P., 542, 547 

Marx 219 

Mary 90, 374, 388, 403, 
407, 422, see also Sophia 
Matter 17, 19, 23, 98 p., 
107, 159, 171, 201, 208, 
226, 232, 235, 330, 381, 
see also Chaos; Sea of 
Time and Space 

Matrix 90, 149, 152, 164, 
208, 210, 214, 225, 262, 
372, 388, 404-415, 508, 
see also Luna; Sophia 
Melancholia 171, 506, 514, 
518 p., see also Luna, 
Saturn, Sophia 


INDEX 


Mercury (alch. substance) 
23 p., 26-28, 114, 127, 
166, 168, 259, 267, 273, 
299, 312, 315, 338, 343, 
344, 384, 402, 407, see 
also Azoth, Oceanus, 
Ouroboros, Proteus, Soul 
Mercury & Sulphur (polar 
forces) 23, 36p., 116 p., 
196, 198, 259 p., 260, 290 
P., 297, 304, 337, 340, 
355 P., 365 pp., 370 pp., 
392, 399, 437, 551, see al- 
so Solve & Coagula 
Mercury, Sulphur & Sal 
(Paracelsian Tria Prima) 
23-26, 215, 382, 390, 448, 


520 

Merian, Matthaus 15, 377, 
436 

Mercury 19, 38, 48, 53, 
135, 140, 155, 334, 377, 
444, 446, 455, 506, 536, 
542 

Mesmer, Franz Anton 
483, 486, 501 
Microcosm-Macrocosm 
19 p., 35, 45, 270, 429, 
455, 514, 519 

Milton, John 97, 106 p., 
160 p., 339, 395, 397, 426, 
496 p., 506 

Mirandola, Pico della 20, 
46, 236, 244 

Mirror 73, 97, 210, 214, 
220, 228, 301, 388, 401, 
405, 415, 468, 489, 511, 


550 

Monad (Unit) 13, 90, 149, 
217, 191, 231, 236, 269 p., 
282, 424, 472, 480, 503, 
507, 542, see also Monad 
Hieroglyphs 

Monad Hieroglyphs 106, 
480, 513, 542, 546 

Moon 9, 18, 23, 48, 50, 
53, 64-71, 108, 116 p., 140, 
165, 209, 229 pp., 239, 
281, 308, 313, 330, 354, 
357, 372, 377, 399, 401, 
405, 414, 437, 455, 489, 
497, 536, 542, 547, 551, 
see also Diana, Luna 
Moon-Dragon 66-71 
Moon (phases) 68 
Mondrian, Piet 348 
Moses 12, 20, 153, 329, 


535 

Multiplicatio 28, 136, 317, 
324, 371, 385 

Mylius, J. D. 260, 356, 
370, 377, 546 

Mysterium Magnum 152, 
220, 382, 388, 415, see al- 
so Luna, Sophia 


N 

National-Socialism 348 
Natura 44, 224, 377, 396, 
405, 408 p., 520, 550 
Neptune 306, 312, 390 p. 
Nettesheim, Agrippa von 
65 p., 171, 244, 247, 
430-433, 435, 466, 468 
PP., 472, 477, 481, 484, 
514 

Neoplatonism 17 pp., 19 
p., 40, 46, 48, 85, 89, 171, 
236, 244, 248, 512, see al- 
so Pythagoras 

Newton, Isaac 23, 25, 106, 
224, 226, 325, 339, 464, 
494, 511p., 520, 534,551 


p. 

Nietzsche 219 

Nigredo 28, 120, 159, 175, 
177 p., 206, 292, 321, 377, 
413 p., 514 

Noah 114, 286, 476, 535 
Norton, Thomas 143 
Novalis 11, 473, 482, 502 


oO 

Oedipus (chimicus) 289 
Oven 112, 118, 145 p., 189, 
271, 396, 547 

Oceanus, Okeanos 344, 
see also Sea of Time and 
Space 

Old Adam see Adam Cad- 
mon 

Ophites 38 p., see also 
Gnosis 

Opus Magnum 14, 23, 32, 
111-427, 534 

Osiris 22, 193, 345, 542 
Ouroboros 38, 170, 193, 
331, 343, 344, 348, 513, 
542, 544, 548 

Ovid 176 


P 
Paracelsus 12, 14 p., 19, 
21, 26, 38, 94, 99, 106, 
149, 164, 202, 226, 228, 
239, 324 p., 336, 394 p., 
403, 409, 448, 468, 501, 
520, 534, 550, 557 
Path, wet and dry 114, 
179, 304, 328 

Peacock 103, 127, 198, 
229, 288, 307, 446, 514, 
544, 547, 550 

Pelican 126, 164, 337, 371, 
see also Lapis 

Phases of the Work 30, 
36, 103, 134, 168, 276, 
377, 385, 393 

Philolaos 89 
Philosophical Tree 260, 
261 

Phoebus see Apollo 
Phoenix 103, 126, 259, 


288, 291, 335, 337. 377. 


559 

Physiognomy 462 pp. 

Pigeon 97, 102, 114, 121, 

176, 208, 287, 291, see al- 

so Azoth, Noah, Albedo 

Planetary Metals 18, 32, 

76, 537, 543 

Plato 8, 12, 18 p., 20, 25, 

35, 43, 48, 72 p., 90, 163, 

229, 235, 351, 410 p., 455, 

460, 504 p., 513, see also 

Bodies, Platonic 

Plenum 496 

Pleroma 17, 440 

Platonic Ideals 19, 503, 

see also Plato 

Plotinus 171, 351 

Pneuma 344, 544 

Prima Materia 26, 94, 111, 

164 p., 168, 204, 208, 227, 

253, 292, 305, 320, 357, 

396, 400 p., 512, 544 

Primum Mobile 51, 528 

Prisca sapientia 12, 20, 476 

Projection 11, 25, 28, 192, 

254, 324, 365, 564 

Projection-Powder 301 

Protestantism 14, 21, 557, 

see also Luther, Rosicru- 

cians 

Proteus 23, 344 

Ptolemy, Claudio 17 p., 47 

pp., 50 p., 53 p., 69, 409, 
an 


Purification 14, 38, 41, 
142-147, 183, 561, see 
also Calcinatio 

Purusha 381, 434 
Putrefactio 119 p., 176, 
186, 190, 195, 198, 326, 
340, 360, 391, 414, 419, 
see also Raven Head; 
Saturn 

Pythagoras (harmony of 
spheres) 12, 18, 28, 58, 80, 
84-90, 103, 242, 248, 268, 
280, 379, 530 


Quantum Mechanics 25 
Source Spirits (seven) 151, 
154, 217, 220 p., 447, 520 
p., 538, 552, see also Pla- 
netary Metals; Wheel of 
Anxiety 

Quintessence 28, 95, 181, 
269, 379, 398, 401, 452, 
504, 553, 556 


R 

Raven, Raven Head 94, 
103, 175 p., 199, 261, 288, 
292, 360, 370, 377 
Rainbow 139, 390, 419, 
520, 550, see also Colours 
in Work, Peacock 


INDEX 


Riddles 8, 11, 26, 165, 222, 
482, see also Animal 
Riddles 

Rebis 103, 198, 321, 401, 
see also Androgyny; Her- 
maphrodite 

Resurrection 20, 132, 
188-201, 418, 480 
Retification 171 
Reussner, Hieronymus 
293, 342, 407 
Revelations of St. John 
276, 279, 524 

Ripley, George 76, 171, 
276, 334, 338, 339 
Romanticism 11, 15, 22, 218, 
486 

Rose 41, 191, 272, 285, 
305, 319, 327, 342, 352, 
362 p., 555 pp. 
Rosenroth, Christian 
Knorr von 265 pp. 

Rosy Cross, Rosicrusicans 
11, 14P., 21, 75, 195, 226, 
267, 280 , 286 p., 357, 
406, 421, 480, 513, 520, 
557, 558 

Rotation 28f., 220, 307, 
493-566, see also Wheel 
Reddening see Rubedo 
Royal Society 281 
Rubedo 30, 76, 103, 126, 
141, 208 p., 291, 317, 363, 
377, 385,514, 549 
Rudolf Il, Emperor 15 
Runge, Ph. O. 211p., 256, 
323, 352, 552, 554 


S 


Sacrobosco, Johannes de 


54 

Sal see Salt 

Sal Alkali 227, 238 
Salamander 394 

Salmiak 37, 167, 301 
Salnitre 153, 215, 220, 
394, 447, 516, 520, 525, 
see also Salpetre 
Salpetre 37, 167, 238, 
288, 301, 304, 316, 394, 
416, 516, 561, see also 
Salnitre 

Salt 25-26, 174, 185, 190 
p-, 198, 215, 227, 238 p., 
271, 293, 304, 309, 311, 
314, 329 p., 382, 393 p., 
414, 516, 520, 525, 550 
Salt of Tartar 37, 191, 197 
p., 271, 312, 315, 391 
Salt-Fire, secret see Fire, 
secret 

Satan see Lucifer 

Saturn 18, 28, 38, 42, 48 
P., 53, 64, 66, 135 p., 145, 
167, 170-174, 176, 184, 
186, 201, 204 p., 220, 286, 
307, 311, 342, 354, 357, 


375, 378, 384, 388, 393, 
422, 436 p., 452, 455, 
504, 510, 521, 534, 536 p., 
542, 547, see also Prima 
Materia 

Saturnine Night 171-178 
Scarab 542 p. 
Schamayim, Eshscha- 
mayim 47, 73, 167, 438, 


453 

Scholem, Gershom 92, 
218 

Schweighart, Theophilius 
269, 287 

Sea of Time and Space 38, 
103, 108, 344, 351, 419, 
426, 520 

Seal, Solomon's see 
Hexagram 

Seals, magic 19, 421, 490, 
561 

Seasons 44, 63, 195 p., 
393, 410, 519, 533 
Sephiroth (tree) 89, 93, 
104, 244, 248, 260, 
262-268, 442, 457, 495 
Serpent 31, 38 p., 66, 86, 


127, 153, 155 p., 170, 208, 
239, 288, 312, 328-347, 
352, 402, 421, 535, 547 


Serpent Rod see Cadu 
ceus 

Sevilla, Isidor von 44 p., 
429, 519 

Shakespeare, William 15, 
264, 271 

Signatures (teaching) 19, 
462-475, 520, see also 
Hieroglyphs, Language 
(primal) 

Sol see Los, Sun 

Sol & Luna see Mercury & 
Sulphur 

Solomon’s Temple 167, 
193, 255, 413, 435 
Solutio 32, 358 
Solve & Coagula 22f 
218 pp., 222, 260, 297, 
355, 388, 437, 443, see 
also Mercury & Sulphur 
Song of Solomon 208, 
264, 556 

Sophia 150, 155 pp., 208 
pp., 214, 220, 246, 272, 
372, 388, 404, 406 p., 
410-413, 415, 521, 508, 


521 
Soul 8, 17ff., 20, 29, 36, 
38, 41, 43, 84, 116, 119, 
129, 133, 135, 144, 147, 
157, 171, 175, 177 P-, 184, 
199, 225, 235, 237 p-, 241 
P., 290, 297, 301, 303, 
346, 351, 354 p., 366 p., 
369, 374 P., 377, 383, 
386, 388 p., 404 p., 417 
P., 425, 448 p., 451, 453 


Index 


571 


Index 


572 


P., 459, 465, 473, 488, 
496, 520, 537, 563, see 
also Mercury, Cosmic 
Soul 

Source (Cabalistic) 94, 
272, 404, 509, see also 
Chochma 

South-Wind 376, 514, 
517 p. 

Spectre see Ghost 

Spirit of Wine 28, 188, 192 
Spiritism 19, 348, 465, 
486, 488, 500 

Spiritus Mundi see Astral 
Spirit 

Sri-Yantra 152, 381 
Steiner, Rudolf 349, 550, 


558 

Still-Head see Alembic 
Stolcenberg, Stolcius von 
15, 27, 29, 144, 171, 173, 
175, 196-199, 291, 298, 
301 p., 326, 371, 379, 390, 
393, 419, 544. 

Stone, hewn see Lapis 
Stone, unhewn see Ap- 
prentice; Prima Materia 
Strindberg, August 474, 
479, 488 p. 

Sublimation 28, 48, 149, 
171, 294, 296, 305, 307, 
312, 315, 371, 376, 388 
Sufism 248, 527, 530 
Sulphur see Mercury & 
Sulphur 

Sun 48, 53, 56-63, 87, 
101, 138, 202 pp., 235, 
364, 534 

Sun, black 35, 199, 203, 
206, 207, 211, 375, 417 
Sun, spiritual 23, 67, 209, 
374, 417, 426, 521 

Swan 103, see also Albe- 


do 

Swedenborg, Emanuel 
20, 257, 442, 486, 
498-501 

Swift, Jonathan 281, 512 


T 
Tantra, Tantrism 91, 333, 
381, 502 

Tetragrammaton 73, 90, 
92, 220, 379, 448 
Tetractys 90, 103, 268, 
379 

Theosophical Society 17, 
348 p., 486, 489 p. 
Thimus, Albert Freiherr 
von 89 

Thohu Vabhohu see Chaos 
Tifereth 262, see also 
Sefiroth 

Time, Concept of 28, 171, 


534 
Tincture 131, 324, 339, 
385 


INDEX 


Tincture, lunar 76, 260, 
342, 357, 521 

Tincture, solar 126, 141, 
342, 521, 556, see also Ru- 
bedo 

Toad 28, 121, 288, 301 
Tria Prima see Mercury, 
Sulphur & Sal 

Trinity 40, 86, 150, 388, 
553 Pp. 

Triplicity 11, 19, 88, 90, 
180, 182 , 206, 214, 250, 
374 P., 382-390, 417, 
422, 490, 520, 528, 536 p., 
553 

Tripod 169, 376 
Trismegistus, Hermes 8, 
12, 20, 27, 59, 84, 88, 112, 
294, 430, 482, 506, 564 
Trismosin, Salomon 
134-141, 176 p., 185 p., 
206 p., 261, 321, 323, 364, 
401, 559 

Turba Philosophorum 144, 
379, 384, 398, 418 


U 

Ulmannus 11, 182, 374, 
388, 417, 536 p. 

Ulro 510 p., 513, 524 p. 
Unground see En-Sof 
Unicorn 290 

Unit see Monad 

Urizen 107, 158, 201 pp., 
351, 510, 524 p. 


Vv 

Valentius, Basilius 139, 
173, 197, 298, 301, 391, 
393, 544 

Vaughan, Thomas 159, 
226 p., 409, 545 

Venus 18, 38, 48, 53, 139, 
183, 220, 302, 375, 388, 
446, 455, 504, 521, 536 p., 
542, 544, 547 

Virgil 77, 411 

Villanova, Arnald von 
362, 393 

Vinci, Leonardo da 21 
Virgin (earth) 47, 208, 
320, 330, 340 

Virgin’s Milk 208, 406 
Vitriol 138, 145, 167,179, 
298, 308, 452 

Vitruvius 48 

Vulcan 202, 239, 288, 
302, 309, 341, 346 p., 
396, 448, 547, see also 
Archaeus; Fire, secret 


Ww 

Warburg, Aby 17 
Women’s Work & Child’s 
Play 318, 322 p., 414 
Weigel, Valentin 14, 23, 
219, 236, 278, 507 


Welling, Georg von 47, 
279, 407, 438 

Whitening see Albedo, 
Diana 4 

Wisdom see Sophia 
Wheel 57, 67, 221, 247, 
346, 377, 441, 512, 
514-555, see also Wheel 
of Anxiety, Ouroboros 
Wheel of Anxiety (Angst- 
rad) 154, 183, 219, 347, 
382 

Whirl 494-501, 511 
Whitehead, Alfred North 


25 
Wolf 118, 173, 288 


Y 

Yeats, W. B. 65, 348 

Yes & No see Solve & 
Coagula; Mercury & Sul- 
phur 


Z 

Zadith, Senior 284 pp., 
294, 376 

Zetzner, Lazarus 452 
Zoas, Four Zoas 65, 90, 
99, 520, 524-527, see al- 
so Elements; Humours 
Zodiac 28, 67, 72, 76, 134, 
259, 276, 444 p., 521, 531, 
548, see also Wheel of 
Anxiety, Planetary Metals 
Zohar 94, 105, 222, 263, 
265, 267 p., 303, 404, 
484, 508 

Zoroaster (Zarathustra) 12 
Zosimos of Panapolis 185, 
382, 544 


Select bibliography of the Hermetic art of illustration 


Blake, William: //fuminated Books, Vol. |-VI, annotated facsimile series, Tate Gallery 
and William Blake Trust, London 1991-1995. 

Erdman, David V.: The //luminated Blake. All of William Blake’s complete illuminated 
works with a plate-by-plate commentary, Garden City, New York 1974. 

Freimaurer, Eigenverlag der Museen der Stadt Wien, 1993. 

Godwin, Jocelyn: Athanasius Kircher. Ein Mann der Renaissance und die Suche nach 
verlorenem Wissen, Berlin 1994 

Godwin, Jocelyn: Robert Fludd. Hermetic Philosopher and Surveyor of Two Worlds, 
London 1979. 

Klossowski de Rola, Stanislas: Alchemy. The Secret Art, London 1973. 

Klossowski de Rola, Stanislas: The Golden Game. Alchemical Engravings of the 
Seventeenth Century, London 1988. 

Van Lennep, Jacques: Alchimia, Brussels 1985. 

Lindner, Erich J.: Die KOnigliche Kunst im Bild. Beitrége zur Ikonographie der 
Freimaurerei, Graz 1976. 


W.K. MacNulty: Freemasonry, London 1991. 


Acknowledgments: 


I should particularly like to thank the Institut fiir Untersuchungen von Grenz- 
zustanden asthetischer Systeme in Bamberg (INFuG), James Gecelli, Uta Gerlach, 


Heiner Roob, Tim Sann, Wolfgang Schibel and Oliver Siebeck. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Bibliography 


573 


Illustration sources: 


Arlington Court, The National Trust, Devon: p. 351; Patrick Arnal, Paris: p. 310; Badische Landes- 
bibliothek, Karlsruhe: p. 168, 178, 227, 250, 284 top, 290 bottom, 335, 410; Bayerische Staatsbib- 
liothek, Munich: p. 80, 182, 374, 389, 420, 422; Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Rome: p. 75, 384, 
385, 402, 440, 547; Biblioteca Arciepiscopale, Rossano: p. 525; Biblioteca Estense, Modena: 

p. 204, 205; Biblioteca Nazionale, Florence: p. 257, 435 top; Bibliotheque de Arsenal, Paris: 

p- 303, 358-363, 376; Bibliotheque Municipale, Laon: p. 519; Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris: p. 42, 
43, 63, 332, 456; British Museum, London: p. 158, 510; Collection Mrs William T. Tonner: p. 353; 
Deutsches Freimaurer-Museum, Bayreuth: p. 282; Deutsches Museum, Munich: p. 551 top; Didze- 
san- und Dombibliothek Cologne: p. 44; Domschatz Trier: p. 523; Duke of Sutherland Collection, 
on loan to the National Gallery of Scotland, Edinburgh: p. 415; Frick Collection, New York: p. 560; 
Galerie Karl Flinker: p. 487; Galleria dell’Accademia, Venice: p. 413; Germanisches Nationalmu- 
seum, Mainz (photographs: Achim Zschau): p. 33; Gutenberg Museum, Mainz (photographs: Arno 
Garrels, Berlin): p. 458, 461 bottom; H.M. Treasury, The National Trust, Petworth House, Sussex: 
p. 147; Hamburger Kunsthalle, Elke Walford Fotowerkstatt, Hamburg: p. 211; Fyr Helge Dahlst- 
edt, Lindingé: p. 488 bottom; Herzon August Bibliothek, Wolfenbiittel: p. 74, 557 bottom; Im- 
ages Colour Library, London: p. 221; Jewish National University Library: p. 92, 263; C.G. Jung In- 
stitut, Kiisnacht: p. 337, 338; Kantonsbibliothek (Vadiana), St. Gallen: p. 299, 368; Kréner Verlag, 
Stuttgart: p. 39;Ravi Kumar, New Delhi: p. 91, 234, 240, 441; Walter Klein, Diisseldorf: p. 565; Li- 
brary of Congress, Washington: p. 516; Library and Museum of the United Grand Lodge of Eng- 
land, London: p. 26; Erich Marx: p. 529; Mary Evans Picture Library, London: p. 501; Musée 
Guimet, Paris: p. 275, 381; Musée Marmottan, Paris: p. 408; Museo del Pardo, Madrid: p. 113, 403 
bottom; Museum Grootoosten, The Hague: p. 283; Osterreichische Nationalbibliothek: p. 77, 
517, 518; Bibliotheque municipale de Boulogne-sur-Mer/Lauros — Giraudon, Paris: p. 81; The 
Pierpont Morgan Library, New York: p. 443, 506; Ramat Aviv, William Gross Collection: p. 268; 
Lucile Rosenbloom Collection: p. 561; Ajit Mookerjee Collection, New Delhi: p. 333; Collection of 
St Catherine’s Monastery, Sinai: p. 251; Scala Istituto Fotografico, Antella (Florence)/ Biblioteca 
Lucca: p. 439, 533; Schiller-Nationalmuseum, Deutsches Literaturarchiv, Marbach: p. 486; Staat- 
liche Museen zu Berlin - Preussischer Kulturbesitz - Kupferstichkabinett, Berlin: p. 375, 411, 417, 
536, 537; Staatsbibliothek zu Berlin — Preussischer Kulturbesitz — Handschriftenabteilung: 

p. 144 top, 164 bottom, 180, 184, 287, 295, 301 top, 324, 325, 383, 398, 412, 530, 549; Stadtbiblio- 
thek Mainz (photographs: Arno Garrels, Berlin): p. 52, 54-57, 60, 61, 69, 79, 85, 86, 87, 90 top, 93 
bottom, 94-102, 104, 105, 142, 164 top, 170, 173 bottom, 174, 187 top, 196 top, 222, 223, 228, 229, 
231-234, 235, 242, 248, 249, 270 bottom, 274 bottom, 276, 278 top, 285, 289, 292, 296 bottom, 
297 bottom, 298 top, 322, 343, 379 bottom, 380 bottom, 396, 494, 405, 455, 460 bottom, 461 
top, 464, 473, 480 bottom, 484, 496, 497, 514, 528 top, 531; Stiftung Weimarer Klassik, Weimar: 
p. 555, 557 top; Strindberg Museum, Stockholm: p. 488 top, 489 top; Tate Gallery, London: p. 2, 
160, 225, 465, 511 top; The Bhaktivedanta Book Trust: p. 350, 526; The British Library, London: 

p. 135-141, 176, 177, 185, 186, 206, 214, 261, 277, 321, 323, 364, 401, 445-447, 472, 532; The War- 
burg Institute, London: p. 286; The William Blake Trust, London: p. 67, 107, 201-203, 373, 395, 
427,524,535; Universitatsbibliothek Heidelberg: p. 16, 24, 47 top, 66, 68, 71 bottom, 79, 109, 
115-133, 165, 172 top, 179, 188-192, 200, 210, 214-217, 218 top, 278 bottom, 279, 300, 301 bottom, 
327-330, 345 bottom, 348, 349, 380 top, 397, 403 top, ANG, 421, 425, 428, 430-433, 435 bottom, 
438, 444, 479, 475-479, 480 bottom right, 482, 483, 490, 507 top, 511 bottom, 521, 539, 546 top, 
551 bottom, 553, 559, 563; Unversitatsbibliothek Mannheim (photographs: Arno Garrels, Berlin): 
p. 49-51, 53, 64 bottom, 83, 162, 163, 171, 173 bottom, 175, 196 bottom, 197-199, 291 bottom, 293, 
298 bottom, 326, 344, 379, 371, 379 top, 399, 393, 437, 452 top, 462, 463 bottom, 466, 470 top, 
471, 498-500, 543, 544 top; By courtesy of the Board of Trustees of the Victoria and Albert Mu- 
seum, London: p. 148; Zentralbibliothek Zurich, Ms. Rh. 172: p. 76, 169, 181, 209, 284 bottom, 
294,355 


Allillustrations not listed here come from the author’s archive. Despite intensive research, the 
copyright could not be established in all cases. We would welcome any further information. 


“An exciting journey 
through the pictorial history 
of occult knowledge.” 


—3sat, Mainz 


Bibliotheca Universalis—Compact cultural companions 
celebrating the eclectic TASCHEN universe at an 
unbeatable, democratic price! Since we started our 
work as cultural archaeologists in 1980, the name 
TASCHEN has become synonymous with accessible, 
open-minded publishing. Bibliotheca Universalis 
brings together nearly 100 of our all-time favorite 
titles ina neat new format so you can curate your 
own affordable library of art, anthropology, and 
aphrodisia. Bookworm’s delight—never bore, always 
excite! 


The author: Alexander Roob studied painting at the 
University of Fine Arts, Berlin. From 2000 to 2002, 
he was a professor at the University of Fine Arts, 
Hamburg. He has been teaching at the Academy of 
Fine Arts, Stuttgart since 2002. 


www.taschen.com 


