
DER ROOB 





I 

# f j ' f V‘.'. {!.% Vi ■%.. npifllligHt 

* , 




j. 1 

jV, f «*\\A ^ f s J;MMBaMai \ ' ' \ V>\ ’ . 

if \?,I A'VistA^i /Slk, , ];/ a \ i \ 4% ik • SHDI 

■■ 


j i y il fvl 






THE HERMETIC MUSEUM: 


ALCHEMY 

& 

MYSTICISM 

ALEXANDER ROOB 


TASCHEN 


KÖLN LONDON MADRID NEW YORK PARIS TOKYO 






Illustrations: Cover: Miniature painting by 
Jehan Perreal, 1516 (p. 504); Back Cover: 
Donum Dei, I7th Century (p. 443); p. 2, 
from: William Blake: Jerusalem, 

1804-1820; p. 6, from: Michael Maier; 
Viatorium, Oppenheim, 1618; p. 34,122, 
612, from: J. Typotius: Symbola 
divina ethumana, Prague, 1601-1603; 
p. 532, from: Basilius Valentius: 

Chymische Schriften, Leipzig, 176g 


©2001 TASCHEN GmbH, 

Hohenzollernring 53, D-50672 Köln 
www.taschen.com 

© igg6 VG Bild-Kunst, Bonn, forthe 

illustrations of Joseph Beuys, Marcel 

Duchamp and Yves Klein 

Cover design: Angelika Taschen, Cologne; 

Mark Thomson, London 

English translation: Shaun Whiteside, London 


Printed in Italy 
ISBN 3-8228-1514-4 


Contents 


8 Introduction 
34 Macrocosm 

The world Ptolemy , Brahe, Copernicus ■ Sun • Moon • 
Cosmic time • Lower astronomy ■ Stars • Music of 
the spheres • Genesis ■ Eye • Cosmic egg 

122 Opusmagnum 

Genesis in the retort Elementa chemicae - 
Purification • Fall of Adam • Chaos • Saturnine night • 
Torment of the metals • Resurrection • Aurora • 

Light & Darkness Jacob Böhme's System - Ladder 
Ramon Lull's System • Philosophical tree ■ Sephiroth • 
Ab uno • Fortress • Animal riddles ■ Oedipus chimi- 
cus • Dew Mute book • Women's work & child's play • 
Vegetable Chemistry • Serpent • Return Theosophical 
Society • Conjunctio Rosarium philosophorum • 
Androgyny • Separatio • Hermetic Yantras • Trinity • 
Fire • Philosophical egg • Matrix • Fountain - Christ- 
Lapis • Blood 

534 Microcosm 

Human Form Divine • Brain & memory • Signatures • 
Script & seal • Apparitions 

614 Rotation 

Whirl & magnet • Divine Geometry • Wheel Winds, 
Gurdjieff's eneagramm, Colour wheel • Rose • Pilgrim 


704 Index 



Introduction 


"It will be apparent that it is difficult 
to discern which properties each thing 
possesses in reality." 
(Democritus, 8th Century B.C.) 














Introduction 


The hermetic museum 


Introduction 


8 


A rieh world of images has etched itself into the memory of mod¬ 
ern man, despite the fact that it is not available in public collec- 
tions, but lies hidden in old manuscripts and prints. 

These are the eternal "halls of Los", the prophet of the imag- 
ination, which are filled with the exemplary images and Platonic 
figures that govern our understanding of the world and ourselves, 
and of which the poet William Blake (1757-1827) wrote that "all 
things acted on earth are seen in them", and that "every age 
renews its powers from these works". ( Jerusalem , 1804-1820) 

Puzzle pictures & linguistic riddles 

By imbuing them with a special hieroglyphic aura, the creators of 
these pictures sought to suggest the very great age of their art 
and to acknowledge the source of their wisdom: the patriarch of 
natural mysticism and alchemy, Hermes Trismegistus. 

It was Greek colonists in late classical Egypt who identified 
their healing, winged messenger of the gods, Hermes (Lat. Mer- 
curius) with the ancient Egyptian Thoth, the Thrice Greatest'. 
Thoth was the god of writing and magic, worshipped, like Hermes, 
as the "psychopompos", the souls' guide through the underworld. 
The mythical figure of Hermes Trismegistus was also linked to a 
legendary pharaoh who was supposed to have taught the Egyp- 
tians all their knowledge of natural and supernatural things, in- 
cluding their knowledge of hieroglyphic script. The alchemists saw 
him as their "Moses" who had handed down the divine command- 
ments of their art in the "emerald tablet". This "Tabula Smarag- 
dina", now believed to date back to the 6th-8th centuries A.D., 
became known to the Christian world after the fourteenth Century 
through translations from the Arabic. 

There was hardly a single alchemist in eitherthe laboratory 
or the speculative, mystical camp who was not prepared to bring 
his discoveries into line with the solemn and verbatim message of 
these twelve theses: 

"True, true. Without doubt. Certain: / The below is as the 
above, and the above as the below, to perfect the wonders of the 




- 



The Emerald 
Tablet, the central 
monument tothe 
hermetic imagin- 
ation. 

Heinrich Khunrath, 
Amphitheatrum 
sapientiae aeter- 
nae , Hanover, 1606 


One. / And as all things came from the One, from the meditation 
of the One, so all things are born from this One by adaptation. / Its 
father is the Sun, its mother the Moon; the Wind carries it in its 
bei ly; its nurse is the Earth. / It is the father of all the wonders of 
the whole world. Its power is perfect when it is transformed into 
Earth. / Separate the Earth from Fi re and the subtle from the 
gross, cautiously and judiciously. / It ascends from Earth to 
Heaven and then returns back to the Earth, so that it receives the 
power of the upper and the lower. Thus you will possess the 
brightness of the whole world, and all darkness will flee you. /This 
is the force of all forces, for it overcomes all that is subtle and 
penetrates solid things. / Thus was the world created. / From this 
wonderful adaptations are effected, and the means are given 
here. / And Hermes Trismegistus is my name, because I possess the 
three parts of the wisdom of the whole world." 

Also from Hermes, messenger of the gods, comes hermeneu- 
tics, the art of textual Interpretation, and according to the author 
of the Buch der Heiligen Dreifaltigkeit (Book of the Holy Trinity, 
1415), the first alchemical text in the German language, this occurs 


Introduction 


Introduction 


9 


















Introduction 


Introduction 


"The wind bears it 
in its belly." 

The birth of the 
philosophers' 
stone occurs in the 
air. 

M. Maier, 

Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 





/Mi 





"Its nurse isthe 
Earth." 

Mercurial water 
nourishes it. 

M. Maier, 
Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 



in four directions: in the natural, supernatural, divine and human 
sense. As used by its most distinguished representatives, alchemi- 
cal literature possesses a suggestive language, rieh in allegories, 
homophony and word-play which, often through the mediation of 
Jacob Böhme's theosophical works, has had a profound effect on 
the poetry of Romanticism (Blake, Novalis), the philosophy of 
German idealism (Hegel, Schelling) and on modern literature 
(Yeats, Joyce, Rimbaud, Breton, Artaud). 

Many voices, even from within their own ranks, were raised 
against the "obscure idioms" of the alchemists. And their own 
account of their communication technique hardly sounds more 
encouraging: "Wherever we have spoken openly we have (actu- 
ally) said nothing. But where we have written something in code 
and in pictures we have concealed the truth." (Rosarium philoso- 
phorum, Weinheim edition, 1990) 

Anyone who inadvertently enters this linguistic arena will 
suddenly find himself in a chaotic System of references, a network 
of constantly changing code-names and Symbols for arcane sub- 
stances, in which everything can always apparently mean every- 
thing eise, and in which even specialist, Baroque dictionaries and 
modern lists of Synonyms provide few clues. This kind of profusion 
of diffuse concepts always required simplifying measures. These 
might be said to include the influential attempts at interpretation 
by the Swiss psychoanalyst C.G. Jung (1875-1961), who was solely 
interested in the internal nature of the hybrid form of alchemy 
and only acknowledged its external, Chemical workings as the 
scientific projection of psychological developments. 

But the hermetic philosophers can be heard "more freely, 
distinctly or clearly" "with a silent speech or without Speech in the 
illustrations of the mysteries, both in the riddles presented with 
figures and in the words". (C. Horlacher, Kern und Stern..., Frank¬ 
furt, 1707). With their thought-pictures they attempted, according 
to a motto of the Rosicrucian Michael Maier, "to reach the intellect 
via the senses" To this extent, their highly cryptic, pictorial world 
can be placed under the heading of one of its favourite motifs, the 
hermaphrodite, as a cross between sensual Stimulus (Aphrodite) 
and intellectual appeal (Hermes). It is aimed at man's intuitive 
insight into the essential Connections, not at his discursive ability. 


10 


Introduction 


Introduction 


n 








Introduction 


Introduction 


which is largely held to be a destructive force. "That which lives on 
reason lives against the spirit", wrote Paracelsus. Along with him, 
many lived in expectation of the "Third Empire of the Holy Spirit" 
prophesied by Joachim of Fiore (1130-1202), in which visionary 
insight would replace literal, textual understanding. The primal 
language of paradise, which names all things according to their 
true essence, would then be revealed again, and all the mysteries 
of nature would be presented as an open book. 

The tendency towards arcane language in "obscure speeches", 
in numbers and in enigmatic pictures, is explained by a profound 
scepticism about the expressive possibilities of literal language, 
subjected to Babylonian corruption, which holds the Holy Spirit 
fettered in its grammatical bonds. The prehistoric knowledge, the 
prisca sapientia that was revealed directly to Adam and Moses by 
God, and which was handed down in a long, elite chain of tradi- 
tion, had to be preserved in such a way that it was protected 
against the abuse of the profane. To this end, Hermes Trismegis- 
tus, who, like Zoroaster, Pythagoras and Plato, was seen as a major 
link in this hermetic chain, developed hieroglyphs. The Renais¬ 
sance idea of Egyptian hieroglyphs took them to be a symbolic, 
rebus-like, esoteric script. This was influenced by the treatise of a 
5th Century Egyptian by the name of Horapolio, in which he pro- 
vided a symbolic key to some 200 signs. This work, entitled 'Hiero- 
glyphica', which was published in many translations and illustrated 
by Albrecht Dürer, among others, prompted the artists of the 
Renaissance, including Bellini, Giorgione, Titian and Bosch, to 
develop the language of signs in their own imaginative way. 

Horapollo's 'Hieroglyphica' also formed the basis forthe 
development, in the mid-i6th Century, of emblems, Symbols which 



Copy of Dürer's 
illustrationsto 
Horapolio 

1 "Hour-watching" 

2 Impossible 

3 Heart (Ibis) 


12 




Hermes-Mercury, 
god oftrade and 
communication, 
urges silence. 
Mercurial elo- 
quence refers to 
the phenomenal 
periphery, the 
revealed world of 
appearances. The 
experience of the 
effects of the spir¬ 
itual centre (Unit 
or Monas) is in- 
accessibleto the 
expressive possi¬ 
bilities of lan¬ 
guage. 

In the cosmic vi- 
sions of Giordano 
Bruno (1548-1600) 
the monads, the 
divine nuclei of all 
living creatures, 
correspond to the 
gravitational cen- 
tres of the stars. 

Achilles Bocchius , 
Symbolicarum 
quaestionum..., 
Bologna , 1555 


Introduction 


13 


Introduction 


Introduction 


are always connected with a short motto and generally accompa- 
nied by an explanatory commentary. They were very populär in the 
Baroque, and proved to be an ideal vehicle forthe communication 
of paradoxical alchemical teaching aids and maxims. Pseudo-hiero- 
glyphs were thus connected with pseudo-ancient Egyptian wis- 
doms, since the majority of the hermetic scripts that tended to 
be found in attics or the niches of old walls proved to be pseudo- 
epigraphs masquerading as works by eminent figures in the her¬ 
metic tradition. 

Emphasizing their broad theoretical foundations, the 
alchemists often termed themselves "philosophers", describing 
their work simply as "art" (ars) or "philosophical art". Although 
the alchemical concept of art is derived from Aristotle's techne, 
and refers very generally to skill in both theoretical and practical 
matters, its similarity to the extended concepts of art in the 
modern age is unmistakable. It is not, as one might immediately 
assume, the illustrative and fantastic spheres of the traditional 
visual arts, in which the links to the hermetic Opus Magnum, the 
'Great Work' of the alchemists, are revealed, but rather those 
areas that involve the aspect of process in the experience of reality, 
such as Conceptual Art and Fluxus. 

The heyday of hermetic emblems and the art of illustration 
coincided with the decline in "classical" alchemy, which was still 
capable of combining technical skills and practical experience with 
spiritual components. Theosophical alchemists like the Rosicru- 
cians and practising laboratory chemists like Andreas Libavius, 
who sought to improve the empirical foundations of alchemy and 
thereby brought it closerto analytical chemistry, were already 
irreconcilable by the beginning of the i7th Century. Although Rosi- 
crucians did boast that "godless and accursed gold-making" was 
easy for them, this was a ludicrous and marginal pursuit in com- 
parison with the main pursuit of inner purification: their gold was 
the spiritual gold of the theologians. 

But these two divergent trends could lay Claim to the same 
founding father, Theophrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim, also 
known as Paracelsus ( 1493 - 1541 )- In his work, the empirical study 
of nature takes place against a visionary and mystical background. 
His prodigious body of work contains both numerous instructions 


for the manufacture of pharmaceutical preparations on a vege- 
table and metallic basis and a practically inexhaustible wealth of 
natural mystical concepts in the spheres of astral magic, the 
Cabala and Christian mysticism. Dressing these up in highly indi¬ 
vidual "bombastic" linguistic Creations did nothing to reduce their 
wide dissemination. These writings would exert an influence for 
centuries, extending from the speculative interpreters of alchemy, 
from Valentin Weigel, the Rosicrucians and Jacob Böhme, to the 
Romantics and modern branches of anthroposophy and theoso- 
phy. 

With their two playful manifestos, in which they promised 
more gold "than the king of Spain brings back from the two In- 
dias", a group of Protestant theology students had given a power- 
ful boost to the production of alchemical writings at the beginning 
of the I7th Century. Even in the i8th Century this kind of printed 
matter, dealing with the search for the tapis, the Philosophers' 
Stone, were seen in such numbers at German book fairs "that one 
could make the road from Frankfurt to Leipzig lovely and soft and 
even with them". (J.G. Volckamer the Younger, Adeptus Fatalis, 
Freiburg, 1721; quoted in: J. Telle, "Bemerkungen zum 'Rosarium 
philosophorum'", in: Rosarium philosophorum, Weinheim igg2) 

One of the many sympathizers with the invisible Lutheran 
fraternity was Lucas Jennis, the publisher of the first 'Musaeum 
Hermeticum', published in Frankfurt in 1625. Although the number 
of illustrations in this collection of treatises hardly does justice 
to its title, it does contain a number of excellent engravings by 
Matthäus Merian (1593-1650). A year previously, under the title of 
Viridarium Chymicum or Chymisches Lustgärtlein (Chymical Garden 
of Delights), Jennis had published a collection of alchemical illus¬ 
trations taken from books published by his Company. The indi¬ 
vidual illustrations are accompanied by rather unenlightening 
lines from the pen of Daniel Stolcius von Stolcenberg, a pupil of 
the Paracelsian physician Michael Maier (1568-1622). Maier had 
been physician to Emperor Rudolf II, known as the 'German Her¬ 
mes', whose Prague court was home to the most famous esoteric 
scientists of the day. In 1618 Maier published his famous collection 
of emblems 'Atalanta fugiens' with the Oppenheim publisher 
Theodor de Bry. To Merian's marriage to de Bry's daughter we owe 


Introduction 


14 


Introduction 


Introduction 


15 


Introduction 


The Kircher 
Museum inthe 
Collegium 
Romanum 

A. Kircher, Turris 
Babel, Amsterdam, 
1679 



'•UCGllKPj; 

W Jc£*' 


V,:-; /5SS 


16 


Introduction 


not only the illustrations to the 'Atalanta' but also many of the en- Introduction 

gravings for the gigantic book-publishing enterprise of Maier's 

English friend and colleague Robert Fludd (1574-1637), the 

Utriusque Cosmi (...) Historia (The History of the Two Worlds) in 

several volumes. 

Identifying his intellectual background with some exactitude, 
detractors called Fludd Trismegistian-Platonick-Rosy-crucian 
Doctor. His actual achievements in the field of natural Science may 
not have been of any great significance, but the vivid expression 
which he gave to many Contemporary impulses are important for 
an understanding of Elizabethan culture, particularly the dramas 
of Shakespeare. Fludd deserves a Status within cultural history 
which has hitherto been withheld from him. (I am grateful to 
Dietrich von Donat for informing me that Fludd gave the de Bry 
printing works very detailed drawings on which to base their 
engravings.) 

In the next generation, however, Fludd found a competitor in 
the Counter-Reformation camp, in the Jesuit Athanasius Kircher 
(1602-1680), who would far exceed the former's encyclopaedic 
achievement in almost every area. The universal scholar Kircher is 
seen above all as the founder of Egyptology, and until Champol- 
lion's triumph his symbolic deciphering of hieroglyphs was unchal- 
lenged. 

His extensive work, which included - alongside his many richly 
illustrated volumes - his famous scientific collection (kept at the 
'Museum Kircherianum' in the Collegium Romanum in Rome until 
1876), is permeated by his scientific knowledge, esoteric interests 
and evidence of a pronounced belief in miracles. In this, and also in 
his early attention to oriental and Asiatic Systems of religion, he 
prepared the ground for the adventurous syncretism of the Theo- 
sophical Society at the end of the igth Century. 

Gnosis and Neoplatonism 

For the art historian Aby Warburg (i866-ig2g), who did pioneering 
interdisciplinary work in the early years of this Century, late classi- 
cal Alexandria represented the epitome of the dark, superstitious 
side of man. Here, in the first Century A.D., in the former centre 
of Greek culture on Egyptian soil, with its highly diverse mixture of 


Introduction 


17 


Introduction 


peoples, Greek and Roman colonists, Egyptians and Jews, the 
threads of all the individual disciplines making up the complex of 
hermetic philosophy came together: alchemy, astral magic and the 
Cabala. The complementary syncretic Systems that nourished 
them, hybrids of Hellenic philosophies and oriental religions and 
mystery cults, are known by the two concepts of Gnosis and 
Neoplatonism. Both are fundamentally animistic, filled with many 
demonic and angelic creatures, whose power and influence deter- 
mine human fate. 

Gnosis means knowledge, and the Gnostics acquired this in a 
number of ways. The first and most fundamental form of know- 
ledge is good news, and concerns the divine nature of one's own 
essence: the soul appears as a divine spark of light. The second 
is bad news and concerns the "terror of the Situation": the spark 
of light is subject to the influence of external dark forces, in the 
exile of matter. Imprisoned within the coarse dungeon of the 
body # it is betrayed by the external senses; the demonic stars sully 
and bewitch the divine essence of one's nature in order to prevent 
a return to the divine home. 

Underthe Stimulus of Zoroastrian and Platonic dualism, a 
painful gulf opened up between the interior and the external, 
between subjective and objective experience, between spirit and 
matter. It was cosmologically established by Aristotle (384-322 
B.C.) in the 4th Century B.C., with a strict division of the universe 
into the eternal, ethereal heaven and the transient sublunary 
sphere. This model, only slightly modified by the Alexandrian 
Gnostic Claudio Ptolemy (c. A.D. 100-178), suppressed all efforts 
at a unified explanation of the world for two millennia. 

In Gnosis, pleroma, the spiritual plenitude of the divine world 
of light Stands immediately opposite kenoma, the material void of 
the earthly world of phenomena. The ungrateful task of creation 
falls to a creator god who works against the good god of light or 
"unknown father", and who often bears the despotic traits of the 
Old Testament Jehovah. He is the demiurge, a word which simply 
means artist or craftsman. 

While in Plato's world creation myth, "Timaeus", the demi¬ 
urge, also called "the poet", forms a well-proportioned cosmos 
out of the primal world, in the form of an organism with a soul. 


18 


Introduction 


which "contains all mortal and immortal things", the Gnostic Introduction 

demiurge produces a terrible chaos, a corrupt and imperfect 

creation which, in the belief of the alchemists, must be improved 

and completed through their "art" with a new Organization or 

reorganization. 

In many Gnostic myths man is given an autonomous task of 
creation: in order to heal the sick organism of the world, he must 
lead the divine sparks of light, spiritual gold, through the seven 
planetary spheres of the Ptolemaic cosmos and back to their heav- 
enly home. To the outermost sphere of Saturn corresponds the 
"sullied garment of the soul", the grossest material, lead. Passing 
through this sphere meant physical death and the putrefaction of 
matter that is a necessary prerequisite transformation. The sub- 
sequent stages were: Jupiter-tin, Mars-iron, Venus-copper, Mer- 
cury-quicksilver, Moon-silver and Sun-gold. 

The individual metals were taken to represent various degrees 
of maturity or illness of the same basic material on its way to per- 
fection, to gold. To ease its passage through the seven gates of 
the planetary demons, gnosis, the knowledge of astral magic prac- 
tices, was required. 

The Neoplatonists took the various diverging concepts that 
their master had put forward dialectically in his dialogues and 
poured them into the tight corset of tiered, pyramid-shaped world 
Orders. Like a descending scale of creation, the universe overflows 
from the uppermost One, the good, its intervals following the har- 
monic laws linked with the name of the philosopher Pythagoras 
(6th Century B.C.) and his doctrine of the music of the spheres. The 
inner discord of the Gnostics was unknown to them. Between the 
two poles of Plato's philosophy, the static and immortal world 
of the celestial forms and the moving and transient world of their 
likenesses on earth, they inserted a series of mediating author- 
ities. 

Corresponding to the tripartite division of the small world of 
man ( microcosm ) into body, soul and spirit was a cosmic soul which 
dwelled in the realm of the stars. This cosmic soul reflected the 
ideas of the higher, transcendental sphere of the divine intellect, 
and through the influence of the stars these ideas imprinted their 
eternal "symbols" on the lower, physical transient sphere. 


Introduction 


19 


Introduction 


Man thereby has the possibility of manipulating events in the 
earthly sphere, using magical practices such as the manufacture of 
talismans, spells and other such things to affect this middle sphere 
of the cosmic soul. Contact is established through the fine mater¬ 
ial of the "sidereal" or "astral body" that invisibly surrounds man. 
Before the Fall, according to the Gnostic-Cabalistic myths, the 
whole of heaven was a single human being offine material, the 
giant, androgynous, primordial Adam, who is now in every human 
being, in the shrunken form of this invisible body, and who is wait- 
ing to be brought back to heaven. Man can communicate with the 
macrocosm through this sidereal medium, and thus receives pre- 
monitions and prophecies in dreams. 

The equivalent in man of the demiurgic, world-creating urge 
of the outer stars is the Creative capacity of the imagination, which 
Paracelsus calls "the inner star". Imagination is not to be confused 
with fantasy. The former is seen as a solar, structuring force aimed 
at the eida, the paradigmatic forms in the "real world", the latter 
as a lunatic delusion related to the eidola, the shadowy likenesses 
of the "apparent world". 

"If someone really possessed these inner ideas of which Plato 
speaks, then he could draw his whole life from them and create 
artwork after artwork without ever reaching an end." (Albrecht 
Dürer) 

Paracelsus likens the imagination to a magnet which, with its 
power of attraction, draws the things of the external world within 
man, to reshape them there. Its activity is thus captured in the 
image of the inner alchemist, the sculptor or the blacksmith. It is 
crucial to master them, for what man thinks "is what he is, and a 
thing is as he thinks it. If he thinks a fire, he is a fire". (Paracelsus) 

For the Greek natural philosopher Democritus (470-c. 380 
B.C.), who originated the idea of the microcosm, all images, 
whether of phenomena, ideas or thoughts, are concretely material 
things whose qualities can impress themselves upon the viewer; 
even the soul, according to him, consists of subtle, fiery atoms. 
Most streams of thought in mysticism oscillate between the fun¬ 
damental dualism of spirit and matter and a form of monism 
derived from Democritus. Thus, for the Neoplatonists, the visible 
and tangible sphere represents only the gross residue of a long 


20 


Introduction 


sequence of increasingly subtle degrees of matter. We come across Introduction 

this materialism once again in the modern spiritualist and occult 

movements, whose important representative, the Swedish vision- 

ary Emanuel Swedenborg (1688-1772), went in search of the mate- 

riality of the soul and the life-spirits in his early scientific phase. 

In the Middle Ages Neoplatonism chiefly found its way into 
the mysticism of the Eastern Church. Although it was by no means 
incompatible with the rigidly hierarchical structures of the me- 
dieval state and Church, in the West it led a shadowy existence on 
the edge of the great scholastic System of theories. The Church 
believed it had finally put a stop to the attempted invasion of 
gnostic "heresies" in the sense of a self-determining and liberal 
consciousness of salvation, in its destruction of the heresies of the 
Cathars and Waldensians at the beginning of the i3th Century, and 
in the subsequent establishment of the "Holy Inquisition". 







fi 



-cd! 

r* t 

n 

^ T 

1 

> 

7 

y* 


\ 

I J 

y 


Leonardo da Vinci 
(1452-1519) was 
familiär with the 
ideas of Florentine 
Neoplatonism, 
particularly 
the Corpus 
Hermeticum in 
Marsilio Ficino's 
translation. 

Study ofpropor- 
tions after Vitruvius 


Introduction 


21 



Introduction But in the Renaissance the flow of Alexandrian tradition 

forged powerfully ahead: in 1463 Marsilio Ficino ( 1433 - 1499 ), the 
central figure in the Florentine Platonic Academy, was commis- 
sioned by Cosimo de Medici to translate a collection of fourteen 
Gnostic and Neoplatonist treatises from the early Christian 
period. Also attributed to the "Thrice Greatest Hermes", this col¬ 
lection was well-known under the title Corpus Hermeticum. These 
texts made a profound impression on the humanist intellectual 
world, for although they were ostensibly ancient, pagan writings 
permeated with various concepts of magic, they still seemed to be 
written entirely in the tone of the New Testament, and to be im- 
bued with the Christian spirit. Moreover, the idea of ancient Jew- 
ish teachings that reached all the way back to Moses - the Cabala 
- as conveyed by Picino's friend. Pico della Mirandola (1463-1494) 
reinforced the suspicion of a prisca sapientia in the Christian spirit. 
(In fact the Cabala, in its familiär form, was only developed out 
of its Alexandrian foundations in Spain and Southern France in the 
i2th and i3th centuries.) 

The effects of Gnostic consciousness on European intellectual 
life are so comprehensive and omnipresent that their extent is 
hard to assess: the man of the Corpus Hermeticum , blessed with 
divine Creative powers, merges with the image of the Renaissance 
man, who has begun to free himself from the bonds of the tiered, 
medieval cosmos and thereby moves towards the centre of the 
universe. 

The Gnostic spark of light, which strives for divine knowledge 
out of the darkness of the world, is reflected in the individual 
Protestant soul's struggle for salvation. Over the centuries, 
Lutheran orthodoxy managed to erase from its own ranks almost 
all memories of natural mystical reform movements deriving from 
alchemy and the Cabala, since they opposed "walled Christianity 
and literal faith" from the first. 

William Blake rightly described the deistic God of the 
progress-loving Enlightenment, who abandons the machinery of 
creation once he has set it in motion, leaving it to continue blindly 
on its course, as a Gnostic demiurge. And the broad path of mod¬ 
ern Science was only able to open up on the basis of the motif of an 
imperfect creation in need of improvement. Interestingly, it was 


22 


Introduction 


Introduction 


also Gnostic thinkers such as Paracelsus and Böhme who drew the 
picture of the dark matter of enchanted, divine, nature, and thus 
stimulated the later Romantic worship of nature. 

Only a few alchemists were familiär with the Corpus Her¬ 
meticum. Forthem all, however, Hermes was associated with the 
figure who had brought them the Emerald Tablet, and with the 
moist, "mercurial" principle which they called the "beginning and 
end of the Work". The veneration of this "divine water" reached 
back to the upper, pneumatic waters of Gnosis which, in Greek 
writings from the early years of alchemy, in reference to the descent 
of the Gnostic Christ, flowed down into the darkness of matter to 
awaken the dead bodies of their metals from their slumber. 

These writings also deal with the rites of the dismemberment 
and resurrection of metals which recall the Egyptian myth of 
Osiris, as well as the Orphic and Dionysian cults, which are kept 
alive to this day in the rites of Freemasonry. The scholar of com- 
parative religions, Mircea Eliade, refers to the idea of the "en- 
twined and dramatic life of matter" that derives from the ancient, 
metallurgical practices of the Egyptian and Mesopotamian cul- 
tures, whose inner development and form in visionary images 
were only possible "through the knowledge of the Greek-Oriental 
mysteries". (Schmiede und Alchemisten [Smiths and Alchemists] 
Stuttgart , 1980) 

There was no strict division between the organic and inorganic 
study of matter, and thus the process of transmutation was im- 
agined as a kind of fermentation, in which certain metals were 
able to transfer their properties like an enzyme or a yeast. 

However, alchemy, as it reached Christian Europe via Spain in 
the i2th and i3th centuries, is much richer and more mysterious 
than the mystical writings of the early Alexandrian alchemists 
would suggest. To do justice to the "Royal Art", we might use the 
tripartite Separation much loved by the Hermetics: according to 
which the part corresponding to the soul was to be found in Egyp¬ 
tian Alexandria. But it owes its corpus, its great wealth of practical 
experiences, of technical knowledge, code names, maxims and 
allegorical images, to its development by the Arabs. And its spirit, 
finally, lies within the natural philosophy of ancient Greece, where 
its theoretical foundations were laid in the 5th Century B.C. 


Introduction 


23 


Introduction 


The divine 
mercurial water. 

Baro Urbigerus, 
Besondere 
Chymische 
Schriften , 
Hamburg, 1705 



Concepts of natural philosophy Introduction 

It is said of the philosopher and thaumaturge Empedocles that he 
claimed the existence of two suns. The hermetic doctrines also 
mclude a double sun, and distinguish between a bright spirit-sun, 
th e philosophical gold t and the dark natural sun, corresponding to 
material gold. The former consists of the essential fire that is con- 
joined with the ether or the 'glowing air\ The idea of the vivifying 
fire - Heraclitus (6th Century B.C.) calls it the 'artistic' fire running 
through all things - is a legacy of Persian magic. Its invisible effect 
supposedly distinguishes the Work of the alchemists from that 
of the profane chemists. The natural sun, however, consists of the 
known, consuming fire, whose precisely dosed use also deter- 
mines the success of the enterprise. 

Empedocles also taught that all life lay in the movement 
resulting from the clash between the two polar forces, love and 
conflict. In the Opus Magnum these correspond to the two alter- 
nating processes of dissolution and coagulation, disintegration 
and bonding, distillation and condensation, systole and diastole, 

"the yes and no in all things". (J. Böhme) They correspond to the 
two polar agents of Arabic alchemy: mercury and sulphur, philo¬ 
sophical quicksilver and brimstone, sun and moon, white woman 
and red man. The climax of the Work is the moment of conjunctio, 
the conjunction of the male and female principle in the marriage of 
heaven and earth, of fiery spirit and watery matter ( materia from 
the Latin mater, mother). The indestructible product of this cosmic 
sex act is the lapis, the "red son of the Sun". 

William Blake identified the male principle with time and the 
female with space. The interpenetration of the two results in di¬ 
verse reverberations of individual events, all of which, taken as 
a whole - totality, the micro-macrocosmic body of Christ in the 
image of the "human and the divine imagination - occur in a state 
of relative simultaneity. Each individual element opens up, in pass- 
ing, into the permanent present of this fluctuating organism and in 
the process attains its "fourfold", complete form, which Blake 
calls "Jerusalem". This Vision generated the kaleidoscopic, narra¬ 
tive structures of his late poems, which reveal themselves to the 
reader as a multi-layered structure of perspectival relations - 
aimed against the prevailing idea of a simple location of events in 


24 


Introduction 


Introduction 


25 




















Introduction 


Introduction 



Francis Bacon, 
Study from the 
death mask of 
William Blake. 
1955 (detail) 


the absolutes of linear time and space, which Newton (1643-1727) 
took as his foundation in formulating his physical laws. 

Behind the often crude imaginings of the English painter- 
poet, with all necessary clarity of detail, lies the most intelligent 
and far-sighted critique of the materialist-mechanistic cosmology 
of the I7th and i8th centuries, a cosmology whose terrible influ- 
ence still prevails to this day, on a global scale. 

In alchemy, the female mercurial principle symbolizes the pro- 
tean aspect of natural processes, their fluid changeability. "The 
process laboratory-workers wanted to rule him (Mercurius)... and 
force him into (the) process" writes Johannis de Monte Raphim; 
but he constantly escapes, and if one thinks about him, he turns 
into thoughts, and if one passes judgment upon him, he is judg- 
ment itself. ("Vorbothe der Morgenröthe", in: Deutsches Theetrum 
Chemicum, Nuremberg, 1728) 

The physicists of the 20th Century encountered this oscillating 
principle behind the iron curtain of Newtonian physics in the 
depths of quantum mechanics, where it has proven impossible to 
determine both precisely and simultaneously the position and the 
impulse of minute particles. It has also been demonstrated that 
the appearance of subatomic particles is dependent on the act of 
Observation itself. With regard to the work of the alchemists, we 
could discuss the problem of projection, of transference through 
imagination, at a purely psychological level. But at the micro- 
physical level it has been shown that the subject and object of 
perception are ontologically, inextricably linked. Subjectivity 
was recognized as a formative influence within the process of 
nature in its entirety which, according to the Statements of some 
alchemists, consists in the constant reversal of inner and outer. 

In his final lecture in 1941, the mathematician Alfred North 
Whitehead (1861-1947), who in his Platonically inspired 'organis- 
mic philosophy' developed concepts to overcome the 'bifurcation 
of nature 1 into the spheres of subjective perception and objective 
facts, boiled down the philosophical consistency of the mercurial 
discoveries of modern physics to the concise Observation: "Exact - 
ness is a fake". 

In alchemy, the necessary counterforce to mercury, a force 
which also defines and shapes, is represented by male sulphur. 


26 



Hermes Trismegis- 
tus and the Creative 
fire that unites the 
polarities. 

D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt , 1624 



Jtfl 

«J k 

jf? jff 1 







Dissolution and 
bonding, or 
mercury and 
sulphur in the 
image of eagle 
and toad. 

D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, 
Viridarium 
chymicum, 
Frankfurt , 1624 


iNrpoDucnoN 


27 


Introduction 









Introduction 


Paracelsus added a further principle to the medieval doctrine of 
the dual principles, thereby making a decisive contribution to a 
more dynamic view of the natural processes. 

Paracelsus identified the third fundamental principle as salt. 

Its property as a solid corresponds to that of the body. Sulphur, 
with its property of greasy, oily combustibility, mediates in the 
Position of the soul. And mercury, the fluid principle with a 
propensity to Sublimation, is the volatile intellect. 

These Paracelsian "Tria Prima" are not Chemical substances, 
but spiritual forces, from whose changeable proportions the invis- 
ible blacksmiths or craftsmen of nature produce the transient ma¬ 
terial compositions of the objective world. In more modern, specu- 
lative alchemy, particularly in the Masonic beliefs of the i8th Cen¬ 
tury, the arcanum salt finally moved into the centre of hermetic, 
gnostic mysticism. Because of its curative properties it was often 
interpreted in Christological terms as the "coagulated light of the 
world", the "secret central fire" or the "salt of wisdom". 

The doctrine of the four elements also goes back to Empedo- 
cles. He referred to them as the "four roots of all things: earth, 
water, air and fire. Hippocrates applied it as the theory of the four 
humours to the microcosm, and in the 4th Century B.C. this theory 
was considerably refined by Aristotle. He traced all elements back 
to a common, prime matter, the prote hyle or prima materia. The 
alchemists also described this as "our chaos" or the "dark lump" 
that resulted from the fall of Lucifer and Adam. Accordingly, to 
Sublimate it and elevate it to the lapis meant nothing less than 
bringing fallen creation back to its paradisal, primal state. Finding 
the correct source material for the Work was the chief concern 
of every alchemist, his specific secret, well-protected by code 
names. And the riddles had it that nothing was easier than finding 
it, because it is at home in all elements, even in the dust of the 
Street; and although, like Christ, it is really the most precious 
thing in the world, to the ignorant it is the "most wretched of 
earthly things". 

According to Aristotle, the prima materia conjoins with the 
four qualities of dryness, coldness, moisture and heat, thus 
developing to form the four elements. By manipulating these 
qualities, it was also possible, so he thought, to change the ele- 



Introduction 


Corresponding to 
the four elements 
(left to right: 
earth, water, air 
and fire) are the 
four phases in the 
alchemical Work 
and four degrees 
of fire. 

D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, 
Viridarium 
chymicum, 
Frankfurt , 1624 



The source mater¬ 
ial for the lapis 
can be found 
everywhere: in 
the earth, on the 
mountains, in the 
air and in the nour- 
ishing water. 

M. Maier , 

Atalanta fugiens , 
Oppenheim , 1618 


Introduction 


29 


28 


Introduction 














Introduction 


mental combinations of materials, thereby bringing about their 
transmutation. 

Accordingly, the work of the alchemist lies "only in the rota- 
tion of the elements. For the material of the stone passes from one 
nature into another, the elements are gradually extracted, and in 
turn relinquish their powers (...) until all are turned downwards 
together and restthere". (J. d'Espagnet, "Das Geheime Werk", in: 
Deutsches Theatrum chemicum, Nuremberg, 1728) 

According to a law attributed to Pythagoras, quadernity de- 
fines the spectrum of all earthly possibilities. The Aristotelian fifth 
element, the refined quintessence, is thus found only in the upper 
divine fiery heaven. It was the goal of all alchemists to bring this 
fifth element down to earth though the repeated transmutations 
that their work entailed. This meant that they would often be dis- 
tilling alcohol or imagining the divine light to be within salt. 

The alchemist's journey required him to pass through that 
outermost circle of the underworld - the serpent's circle of Sat¬ 
urn. Saturn is identical to Chronos, the Greek god of time, and in 
overcoming him one has broken with transient, sequential time 
and reverted to a Golden Age of eternal youth and the divine 
benevolence, that allows one to merge into another. This dream 
was to be be fulfilled by a rejuvenating elixir, "drinkable gold", the 
legend of which had probably reached early, medieval Arabia via 
China and India. 

The very earliest Greek text with an alchemical content, bear- 
ing the programmatic title Physika kai Mystika (of natural and hid- 
den things), divides the Opus Magnum into four phases according 
to the colours that it produces: blackening (nigredo), whitening 
(albedo ), yellowing (citrinitas) and reddening (rubedo). This division 
has survived the entire history of alchemy. Later, there appeared 
other, highly divergent subdivisions of "lower astronomy", as 
alchemy was also known. These were based on planets and metals, 
as well as on the twelve signs of the zodiac. In his Dictionnaire 
Mytho-Hermetique (Paris, 1787), J. Pernety listed the following 
phases: 1. calcinatio: oxidization - Aries; 2. congelatio: crystalliza- 
tion - Taurus; 3. fixatio : fixation - Gemini; 4. solutio: dissolution, 
melting - Cancer; 5. digestio: dismemberment - Leo; 6. distillatio : 
Separation of the solid from the liquid - Virgo; 7 - sublimatio: 


30 


Introduction 



Introduction 


The eternal lapis O 
is produced by the 
rotation of the 
elements, in the 
unification of 
upper and lower, 
of fire A and 
water V. It is the 
celestial image 
of earthly gold, 
shown here as 
Apollo in the 
underworld, 
amongst the six 
Muses or metals. 


Musaeum Her- 
meticum, Frankfurt 
edition, 1749 











Introduction 




refinement through Sublimation - Libra; 8. separatio: Separation, 
division - Scorpio; 9. ceratio: fixing in a waxy state - Sagittarius; 
10. fermentatio: fermentation - Capricorn; 11. multiplicatio: multi- 
plication - Aquarius; 12. projectio: scattering of the lapis on the 
base metals in the form of dust - Pisces. 

The aforementioned early alchemical text from the ist-2nd 
Century B.C. was published by a follower of Democritus, using the 
latter's name. Democritus himself traced all phenomena capable 
of being experienced by the senses, including colours, back to the 
movements and changing combinations of minute particles with- 
out quality, which he called atoms, "indivisible". This atomic real- 
ity behind the illusory world of appearances was of an inconceiv- 
able depth and secrecy. 

A history of practical alchemy could begin with the mystical 
atomist and non-alchemist Democritus, and it could end with the 
non-alchemystical atomists of the 20 th Century, who 200 years 
after the refutation of all scientific foundations of the hermetic 
art succeeded, by fusing atomic nuclei (admittedly using uneco- 
nomical amounts of energy) in transmuting the elements. 



View of the inside of the linear accelerator 
of the Society for Heavy Ion Research in 
Darmstadt. Here, electrically charged 
atomic nuclei, for example, oftin, with the 
atomic number 50, are accelerated to a 
speed ten percent of the speed of light. 


Only then is the repulsive power of other 
atomic nuclei such as copper, with the 
atomic number 29, overcome, making 
fusion possible. The result would be a 
nucleus with 79 protons - gold. 


Introduction 


32 


Introduction 


Introduction 


33 






Macrocosm 


For Plato, the universe or great world Order 
was created by God the creator as a manifestation 
and Illustration of his own perfection: "(...) and 
so he formed it as a single visible living thing which 
was to include all related creatures (...). 

By turning it he shaped it into a sphere (...), giving 
it the most perfect form of all." 

(Timaeus, c. 410 BC) 














The World 


"I assure you that 
anyone who at- 
tempts a literal 
understanding of 
the writings of 
the hermetic 
philosophers will 
lose himself in the 
twists and turns of 
a labyrinth from 
which he will 
never find the 
way out." ( Livre 
de Artephius, Bibi, 
des Philosophes 
Chimiques, Paris, 
1741 ) 

In the courtyard: 
sulphurand mer- 
cury, thetwo basic 
components of 
matter. The three 
walls symbolize 
the three phases 
of the Work, which 
begins in spring 
underthe zodiac 
sign of Aries and 
the decaying 
corpse. In summer, 
in the sign of Leo, 
the conjunction 
of spirit and soul 
occurs, and in 
December, in the 
sign of Sagittarius, 
the indestructible, 
red spirit-body 
emerges, the elixir 
orthe "drinkable 
gold of eternal 
youth". 



Janus Lacinius, 
Pretiosa Margarita 
novella, 1577-1583 


36 


Macrocosm: The World 


The World 



The outer fire A, in the form of a cherub, 
guides the alchemical couple sulphur and 
mercury into the labyrinth of material 
transformation. The central temple is the 
place of their transformation, which can 
only occur with the help of the secret 
salt-fire which opens up the metals. This is 
formed from ammoniac *, salt of tartar 6 
and saltpetre 0, which is taken isolated 
from the divinedew. 


The six-pointed star on the roof teils the 
wise men of the birth of their philosoph- 
ical child. 

C. van Vreeswyk, De Coude Leeuw, 
Amsterdam, 1676 


Macrocosm: The World 


37 








































The World 


In the cosmology of the gnostic Ophites, the sea-monster ( Leviathan , 
Ouroboros) as the celestial, primordial water, forms the outermost 
circle of the world of creation, which is inaccessible to the experi- 
ence of the senses, and shuts it off from the divine world of love and 
light. 

The Cabala, which is strongly indebted to gnostic teachings, also 
places a veil between God and creation. Jacob Böhme called this 
celestial veil the "Upper Water", and in Blake's mythology man has 
dwelt in the sea of time and space since the Flood. 

In the gnostic view, earthly existence is a sphere of grim exile, 
and for Paracelsus it is even the place to which Lucifer was banished: 
Hell itself. 

At birth the light-soul descends the ladder of the seven spheres 
to earth, in the process coarsened by the planets, which are seen 
as humble creator-gods and demons (archonts), and coated in dirty 
layers of matter. 

Each planet impresses a negative property upon the soul as it 
passes, dulling it in the process: Venus immodesty, Mercury miserli- 
ness, Mars wrath, Jupiter vanity, etc. 

After death the earthly body remains behind as a Shell in Tar¬ 
tarus, and the soul rises through the region of air (Beemoth) and back 
up to the archontes, although these attempt to obstruct the souTs 
passage. Hence, precise knowledge (gnosis) of the passwords and 
signs is required to open the way to sevenfold purification. 

The passage through the final sphere is the most difficult. 
According to Ophitic doctrine, this sphere's master is Saturn, the 
demiurge, the "accursed" god who created time and space. He is the 
serpent guarding paradise. 


38 


Macrocosm: The World 



The World 


Reconstruction 
of the gnostic 
cosmology of the 
"Ophites" (from 
Gr. "ophis". 


Hans Leisegang, 
Die Gnosis, 
Stuttgart, 1985 


Macrocosm: The World 





The World 


The writing of the 
Neoplatonist 
Pseudo-Dionysius 
Areopagita 
(c. A.D. 500) on 
the "celestial 
hierarchies" ex- 
erted a consider- 
able influenceon 
the structuring of 
the Christian cos- 
mos throughtothe 
Renaissance. He 
distinguished be- 
tween nine choirs 
of angels, each 
triad being as- 
signed to a part of 
thetrinity: the 
group of angels, 
archangels and 
virtues to the Holy 
Ghost; the powers, 
forces and domin- 
ions to the Son; the 
thrones, Cherubim 
and Seraphim to the 
Father. 

III. top: Jacobus 
Publicus, Oratoriae 
artis epitome, 1482 

III. bottom: 

Johannes Romberch, 
Congestorium artifi- 
ciose memorie, 1533 




^c hhv»7 j> 

iihh 




CW*IA^ 


40 


Macrocosm: The World 





IGATORY \\\ 


The World 


rgCTÜE EMFYHÜAN 

\EffiADISE 


ln Dante's Divine 
Comedy (1307- 
1321), the soulon 
its pilgrimage rises 
from the realm of 
Hell, which pro- 
jects spherically 
intothe earth, via 
the mountain of 
Purgatory and the 
ninespheres of 
the planets, the 
fixed stars and the 
crystalline sphere, 
all of which are 
kept in motion by 
angels, upto 
Paradise, where 
itfinds its home 
in the white 
rose of heaven, 
illuminated by the 
divine light. 

Michelangelo 
Cactani, La Materia 
della Divina Com¬ 
media di Dante 
Alighieri, 1855 


Macrocosm: The World 





The World 


The enthroned 
Christ Pantocrator 
blessesthe uni- 
verse below him. 
The spheres of 
Jupiter and Saturn 
are inhabited by 
hierarchies of 
angels. Atthe 
centre is the map 
ofthe world with 
theT-shaped divi- 
sion intothe three 
continents of Asia, 
Europe and Africa; 
a division familiär 
since classical 
antiquity, which 
depicted Asia as 
thesamesizeas 
Europe and Africa 
put together. 

The vertical ofthe 
Tis the Mediter- 
ranean. the hori¬ 
zontal is formed 
by the Don, the 
Black Sea and the 
Nile 

Manuscript of Lam¬ 
bert of Saint-Omer, 
1260, Paris 



p-Tcqfpruni ptnuuirafultmncJolM.iümtrusf 

I ruuCüGifhnp quoöim iiem.irt/1’ 

: bt ‘Xttn . / 

t* ui tjttbtbi quofcuöfoz exfUr 
mfb mtbibtf fbomturb t? radius 
rnflto cuif mitn rrptUCiaartti 
ctmfrrtiqtntr 41 1 trcrio ignnltr 
Viirpmmxn.fr .inr uniuhnn 
icpmnrtt milMf colotan m frtr 
md- '< 

iitecMdoqtmamn aororngto 
ham^cf ftmiAl» Imitn» tiapwt* 

3i rttaatf ftiftoll/nnsrign rfWts 
«nsttmttmxnm ötila&rar. 
ituibirtamntrr r*öOrtltr*. 
lif ömmtitjutoi« Oilla» ocmtr 
, a D ^w-«»dfhw!trtMmmttpmtrpciptrr r 
—ttmitoenocmam-ittmtounpcn? 
^ trt(b*r»t(lMuonrImcr«r 

\ uujtr WJrnlntt» pHc 
uia» .“t^prtlantuÄ“' 


ttrfttnnratmpxtsoönnmr bigumfbüs raunt n 
iQhQtitiir rfrrnra-tftbcp ttpoci turCha ctns irnndr/ 
biOTcmipuvfloticfute cum U>emou tuxtr /A 

comic.uur Arnimin ubquaöumr ötn t oi 

"Tinar^u- .TI 1 MI 1 S .ri.'.nro.u:i!o / 


T «mtruadxaiurVrfhgiM£taUn IM 
um gmetnn-cum (£c umtüt /fl 

w (iuu toncquCU: ibttrm trtätito H 

pcrr.uuro i mrtnrw ficrmoblmur H 
fqmUb'puurtn motmrfmmprhü fl 

eunnm ferftabul» qZotgac uPueflcr yl 
qhbrpmia nuiguutn cfi (bml ödfctofcV 
fmrmr.Ommu tmi contöaiffnf ermr. \ 
aimAunöcranc-.^ermfriuipüItraquäöc 
tnuei t^Tir (r ftrptöntw cx*r*r i ip» cocifl i 
ab^ hcmOifttmo» «murrt«? rtr 
P«u© gigtnr Jflnyfli ßil 
mrntatgnr ul tjSr 
maioif nbpnr . yT 

rambttquu 
QibcilUft C , 

1 fflimtf 

fmf / 


r 1Än«? 


r / / ttlM 
/ / ufttn 
y / ftiqtHf 
/ / nqojrccmgU 

/ / cum ?ttw«rn> 
/''aopibttttir ft oti' 
nmcfthnmntnahi 


OitirfütV 

tmna-q«* \ \ S 

tlwmc9dt\\ \ 

Xxoacr qmt^ö \\. ^ * 

Amptricnutua 

pwtsgcrmgutr.ttto \ ^ 

tr ubcaUbi tmpHw tato J 

''brnfirartml» ünr quibttion 
thlgonn^tu 4ntmnopocm»»Ö.ttf maotyrt*.? 


tuoa^ttfpwrrmbmn 
tCTiJbco utetTtra©-ft gtiu 


42 


Macrocosm: The World 


The World 



The souls ascend 
from the realm of 
theelements via 
thespheresofthe 
planets, thefour 
levels ofthe soul 
and the nine choirs 
of angels to the 
highest sphere of 
Platonic Ideals. 
Christ sits en¬ 
throned above 
them all. 

Anonymous 

manuscript, 

I2th Century 


Macrocosm: The World 


43 



The World 


Thediagram 
shows the possible 
relationships and 
transformations of 
the four elements, 
both between 
each other and 
with respect to 
thefourseasons 
andthetempera- 
ments. Earth - au- 
tumn - melan- 
cholic/ fire-Sum¬ 
mer-choleric/ 
air - spring -san- 
guine/ water- 
winter- phleg- 
matic. 



The year as a net- 
work of relation¬ 
ships between the 
seasons, the ele¬ 
ments and the four 
points of the com- 
pass. 

Isidore ofSeville, 

De natura rerum, 
manuscript antho- 
logy, c. A.D. 800 



44 


Macrocosm: The World 


The World 



Fludd combined 
the diagrams of 
the Middle Ages, 
as handed down 
by the well-known 
encyclopaedic 
works of Isidore 
of Seville (A. D. 
560-633), with 
the complex sym- 
bolism of the 
Cabala. 


^Cprpu5 

Minerale 


III. top: the com 
ponents of the 
macrocosm 


III. bottom: the 
components of the 
microcosm 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Frankfurt, 
1621 


Macrocosm: The World 






The World 


Based on the work 
of the Florentine 
Picodella Miran- 
dola (1463-1494), 
the Systems ofthe 
so-called "Christ¬ 
ian Cabala" linkto 
neoplatonic and 
Christian elements 
with a knowledge 
of Jewish mysti- 
cism, that was 
often taken from 
corrupt sources. 
Inthisdiagram 
Robert Fludd es- 
tablished a paral¬ 
lel between the 
levels ofthe Ptole- 
maic cosmos and 
the twenty-two 
letters ofthe 
Hebrewalphabet, 
from which God 
created theworld. 

R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosrru', Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 



46 


Macrocosm: The World 


The World 


ÄSTEMA MAGICUM 


UNIVERSI 



ma.x. 


Ggeluw 

(n OtLoVtUtl 

(9nfmit(L (Ztermtntis 
ctvhtvmis fbvvxtiL 
dltajestdtif. 


I 


The geocentric concept of the world 
was still evident in i8th-century Freema- 
sonry. The "Magical Outline ofthe World 
after Ptolemy" from Georg von Welling's 
Opus mago-cabalisticum is divided into five 
regions: A and B are the primal elements 
fire (Hebr. esh) and water (mayim), 

C = region of the stars, D = region of the 
air, where the two elements merge into 


"shamayim", the "fiery water of the 
spirit", which, as the seed of all things, 
reaches the surface of the earth (E) in the 
dew. F = Virgin earth, G = subterranean air 
and the red, focal point of the central fire. 

Cregorius Anglus Sallwigt (pseudonym of 
von Welling), Opus mago-cabalisticum, 
Frankfurt, 1719 


Macrocosm: The World 


47 








































The World 


Comparative depiction of cosmological Systems 
III. I: the Ptolemaic System (c. A.D. 100-160) with the earth at the 
centre, surrounded by the seven ethereal spheres of the moon, Mer- 
cury, Venus, the sun, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn, which all move in a 
circle around the earth. Above them is the static level of the fixed 
stars and the circles of the zodiac. This System, which contained the 
whole of the age's astronomical knowledge, continued to predomi- 
nate for more than a millennium, until overturned by the Copernican 
revolution. 

III. II: For Plato (427-347 B.C.), the cosmos was the image of the 
cosmic soul, rotating on its own axis. He placed the sun directly 
above the moon. 

III. III: In the pseudo-Egyptian System adopted by Vitruvius, 
Mercury and Venus revolve around the sun, which in turn, like the 
other planets, revolves around the earth. 

Ills. IV + V: the System put forward by Tycho Brahe in 1580 
emanates from two centres. The sun revolves around the earth, the 
static centre, and is at the same time at the centre of the five other 
planets: "When the sun comes along, all the planets go around 
with it." 

III. VI: 1800 years afterthe Alexandrian astronomer Aristarchus, 
Copernicus put the sun back at the centre of the world in 1543. His 
cosmological System corresponded to the hermetic vision of the 
upward movement of matter from the outermost coarse state of 
Saturn-Iead to the highest level of Sublimation, Sun-gold. But much 
more far-reaching were the concepts of the Neoplatonist thinker 
Cardinal Nikolaus of Cusa, known as Cusanus: as early as 1445 he 
reached the conclusion that the earth, rotating on its own axis, 
circled the sun, and that the universe, which Copernicus still saw as 
bounded by a beit of fixed stars, must be infinite. 

His Student in spirit Giordano Bruno, who combined the discov- 
eries of Cusanus with speculations on magic, wrote in isgi of the 
infinity of worlds: "We are no more the centre than any other point in 
the universe". And, "All things are in the universe and the universe in 
all things". 


48 


Macrocosm: The World 



The World 


The World 





Planispheric depiction of the 
Ptolemaic System. 

"The eye of man, who Stands on the earth 
(...) organizes the structure of the entire 
universe in the sequence that he per- 
ceives, and in a sense piaces himself at the 
centre of the whole of space. Wherever he 
sends the rays of his gaze, he marvels at 
the work of the heavens, curved with ad- 
mirable roundness (..) and believes that 
the globe is set at the centre of this great 
work." (Andreas Cellarius) 


The illustration shows the Aristotelian 
stratification of the four elements in the 
sublunary region: the globe of the earth 
consists of the heaviest and most impure 
elements of earth and water, then comes 
air, and finally, adjacent to the sphere 
of the moon, is the lightest and purest 
element, fire. 

A. Cellarius, Harmonia Macrocosmica, Ams¬ 
terdam, 7 660 



Spatial depiction of the Ptolemaic System 

"Most ancient philosophers (...) believed 
that the superlunary world, i.e. the ethe- 
real heavens, consisted of several circles 
orspheres, solid and diamond-hard, the 
larger of which contained the smaller. And 
that the stars, like nails set in the wall of a 
ship or some other movable object (...), 
were set in motion by them." (A. Cellarius) 


The outermost, opaque sphere of the 
fixed stars was known as the Primum Mo¬ 
bile, the "first moved", because, driven by 
divine love, it caused the motion of all 
other spheres. 

A. Cellarius, Harmonia Macrocosmica, 
Amsterdam, 1660 


Macrocosm: The World 


Macrocosm: The World 


50 


51 























































The World 


Here, Kircher is 
receiving instruc- 
tion from the an- 
gel Cosmiel, who 
is guiding him on 
an extended 
dream journey 
through the com- 
peting astronomi- 
cal Systems. He 
favoured the cos- 
mology of Brahe, 
since he wanted to 
dojustice tothe 
fundamental ex- 
perience of geo- 
centricity, while at 
the same time 
wanting to give an 
appropriate Status 
tothesun which, 
in the hermetic 
view, represents 
the divine in the 
cosmos. 

A. Kircher , Iter 
extaticum 

(Ed. Caspar Schott), 
Würzburg, 1671 



‘t/Iter exstaticum Wd 

iCirch erianuaT 

Prseluilonibus Sc S cliolrj^ 

\ iUu/?rntum # fcliemA.tibu5^ 
ft] exornatum^ jn 

J SocsU&fiCs 7&SL. y ^ 


52 


Macrocosm: The World 


The World 



From the contradictory Systems of Ptolemy 
and Copernicus, Tycho Brahe created a 
synthesis in which he attempted to "give 
greater credence to the geocentric 
structure of the world (...). He arranged 
the Position of all the orbits as follows: 
around the earth, the centre of the entire 
universe, rotates the moon, which, like 
the sun, runs a course concentric to the 
earth. This in turn is the centre of the five 


other planets, Mercury, Venus, Mars, 
Jupiter and Saturn, which are concentric to 
the sun but eccentric to the earth. Venus 
and Mercury are the sole and constant 
satellites of the sun on its orbit around 
earth (...)" (A. Cellarius) 

A. Cellarius, Harmonia Macrocosmica, Ams¬ 
terdam, 1660 


Macrocosm: The World 


53 






































The World 


That the earth cannot be regulär in shape 
is already apparent in the different begin- 
nings of day and night. And neither can it 
be hollow, because if it were, the sun 
would rise earlier in the west than in the 
east. As a rectangular shape is also 
impossible, only the spherical shape is 
conceivable. 

Elementa Astronomica, Baste, 1655 


Behind the Latinized name Sacrobosco 
Stands the English cleric John of Holy- 
wood, whose astronomical textbook 
Sphaera Mundi, published in 1220, was one 
of the most widely read books of its day. 

In it he explains the Ptolemaic view of the 
world, and, along with numerous proofs 
for the spherical shape for the earth, he 
provides proof of the circular orbits of the 
planets and explanations for solar and 
lunar eclipses. 

Johannes de Sacrobosco, Sphaera Mundi, 
Antwerp, 1573 


54 Macrocosm: The World 





"I remember(...) seeing an Atlas looking 
at a world whose hoops and rings had 
been broken by Copernicus, whereTycho 
Brahe placed his back beneath the globe, 
and a shouting Ptolemy tried to Support 
the round lump, to stop it from falling into 
the void. In the meantime Copernicus was 
breaking many crystal spheres that were 
placed around the globe and was stamping 
out the little lights that flickered in the 


crystal jars." (de Hooghe, Hieroglyphica, 
Amsterdam, 1744) 

"Sometimes the Earth will spin into the 
Abyss & sometimes stand at the Centre 
and sometimes it spreads flat into broad 
Space." (William Blake, Jerusalem, 1804) 

Franciscus Aguilonius, Optica, i6n 






Macrocosm: The World 


55 











Sun 


Sun 


For Fludd thesun 
istheheartofthe 
macrocosm. It is at 
the precise point 
of intersection of 
the two pyramids 
of light and dark- 
ness, in the 
'sphere of equilib- 
rium' of form and 
matter. Within it 
dwells the life- 
giving cosmicsoul. 

R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


56 




Experimentum II. 

t JMulto mdjor vis requiritur ad motum alicujus rot* a centro (quem motum k 
principio feu ab mteriori appellant)^w ad motum a fuperficic vclcircnrnfcrentU 
fiuab exteriore,qui motus in tine dicitur. 



Here, Fludd isde- 
fending the geo- 
centric concept of 
the world against 
the new theory of 
Copernicus, which 
he considered 
illogical onthe 
grounds that it 
would be much 
simpler for the 
prime moveror 
God the creator to 
rotatethe wheel 
of thespheres 
from the rimthan 
for a sun to do so 
from the centre. 

For Fludd, the 
mechanical centre 
of the universe 
remained the 
earth, whilethe 
spiritual centre 
was the sun. 

R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


Macrocosm: Sun 


57 








Sun 



TLANISPHÄRJ 

Sive | 

VNJVERSI TO*® 
»EX HYPO^t^I 
COPERN1 
PLANO S ^X,’ y,' 


COPERNICANV^ 

SSS^wTTVS CREATI / 
^ THESI | 

CANA IK * 
KXHIBITVM, 


Forthe mystic and astronomer Kepler, the 
relationship of the seven spheres of the 
planets in the Copernican System to their 
centre, the sun, was identical to "that of 
the various discursive thought processes 
to simple intellectual insight" ( Harmonices 
Mundi, Linz, 161g, Leipzig edition, ig25) 

In 1507, through his investigations into the 
reasons for the imprecisions of the calen- 
dar of the time, Copernicus reached the 


conclusion that the calendar charts would 
be improved if they were produced on the 
basis of a heliocentric conception of the 
world. He was able to refer to a number of 
classical astronomers and philosophers, 
such as Aristarchos of Samos (c. 300 B.C.), 
Heraclides Ponticus, Nicetas of Syracuse 
and Ecpantus the Pythagorean. 

A. Cellarius, Harmonia Macrocosmica , 
Amsterdam , 1660 


58 


Macrocosm: Sun 


Sun 







"At the centre of all things resides the sun. 
Could we find a better place in this most 
beautiful of all temples, from whence this 
light illuminates all things at once? Rightly 
is it called the lamp, the spirit, the ruler of 
the universe. For Hermes Trismegistus it is 
the invisible god, Sophocles' Elektra calls 


it the all-seeing. Thus, the sun sits on its 
royal throne and guides its children, which 
circle it." (N. Copernicus, De revolutionibus 
orbium caelestium, 1543) 

A. Cellarius , Harmonia Macrocosmica , 
Amsterdam , 1660 


Macrocosm: Sun 


59 












































MUt 


"Thesublimity and 
perfection of the 
macrocosmicsun 
is clearly revealed 
when royal Pheobus 
sits at the very 
centre of the sky 
in his triumphal 
chariot, his golden 
hairfluttering. 

He isthe only visi¬ 
ble ruler, holding in 
his handsthe royal 
sceptre and gov¬ 
erning the whole 
world (Fludd, 
Mosaicall Philoso - 
phy, London, 1659) 


In the Renaissance, 
the translations 
by Marsilio Ficino 
(1433-H99) of 
the Corpus Her- 
meticum revived 
the cult of thesun 
based onthe an- 
cient Egyptian mys 
teries. For Ficino 
the sun embodied, 
in descending Or¬ 
der, God, divine 
light, spiritual en- 
lightenment and 
physical warmth. 
Inthisillustration, 
Fludd shows God 
placing histaber- 
nacle in the sun at 
the beginning of 
creation, and thus 
illuminating and 
breathing life into 
the entire cosmos. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi , Voll , 
Oppenheim , 1617 


R. Fludd , 

Philosophia sacra, 
Frankfurt , 1626 


Macrocosm: Sun 


Macrocosm: Sun 




















Sun 


ln Masonic sym- 
bolism, the sun 
represents the im- 
perishable spirit, 
immaterial gold. 

In many Masonic 
temples it isdrawn 
intheeast, from 
wherethe 'Master 
of the Lodge' dir- 
ects proceedings. 

A Freemason, 
formed from the 
materials ofhis 
lodge, engraving, 
1754 



62 


Macrocosm: Sun 


Sun 



Christ-Apollo at 
the centre of the 
zodiac. The outer 
circles contain the 
fourseasons. 

Christ in the Zodiac, 
Northern Italy, 
nth Century 


Macrocosm: Sun 


63 






























Sun 


III. top: In Kircher's 
vision, the pagan 
heaven of the male 
gods represents 
different aspects 
of the sun, orthe 
cosmic spirit: 
Apollo (Phoebus, 
Horus), for 
example, repre¬ 
sents the warming 
power of the sun's 
rays, Chronos 
(Janus, Saturn) the 
time-generating 
power of the sun. 

III. bottom: The 
pagan goddesses 
as emanations of 
the lunar powers: 
Ceres (Isis, Cybele) 
represents the 
lunar power that 
brings forth the 
the fruits of the 
earth, Persephone 
(Proserpina)the 
lunar power that 
promotes the 
growth of herbs 
and plants. 

A. Kircher, 
Obeliscus 
Pamphilius, 

Rome, 1650 



S Ch Cm ata SymbollCa m cpuhus uoufuem 


So lern &C Lunam. rewoCAta viele trur 


<-v£, HxfoYOl 
IANVI 


-iermown) 


■^iIdaoon 

\Syrcn^ 


64 


Macrocosm: Sun 


Sun 



Kircher assumed 
that the whole 
polytheistic 
heaven of the 
gods, handed 
down from the 
Eygptians via the 
Greeks to the 
Romans, stemmed 
from the Observa¬ 
tion of the annual 
course of the sun 
through the zodiac 
and its Position in 
relation to the 
phases of the 
moon. 

A. Kircher, Tunis 
Babel, Amsterdam, 
1676 



"The outer sun 
hungersforthe 
inner one." 

(J. Böhme, De 
signatura rerum) 

Westphalian altar, 
c. 7 370/80 


Macrocosm: Sun 


65 



























Moon 


According to its 
Position in relation 
to the sun andthe 
earth, the area 
of the moon lit by 
the sun appears 
in periodically 
changing forms: 
waxing from the 
invisible new 
moon through the 
first quarter(half 
moon) to the full 
moon (bottom), 
then waning 
through the final 
quarter back to 
the new moon 
(top). 

A. Cellarius, 
Harmonia Macro- 
cosmica, Amster¬ 
dam, 1660 





umcrv 

» QM* 


rnisivw , 



The views ofthe 
phasesofthe 
moon seen from 
the sun and the 
earth. 

A. Kircher, Mundus 
Subterreaneus, 
Amsterdam, 1678 


66 


Macrocosm: Moon 


Moon 


East 

Breakingr of Strengrth 
22 



"As the moon 
passes through 
the whole ofthe 
zodiac in twenty- 
eight days, the 
most ancient as- 


West 

Discover/ of Strengrth 


trologers assumed 
that there were 
twenty-eight 
stages(...) Within 
these twenty-eight 
stages lie many of 
the secrets ofthe 
ancients, miracu- 
lously affecting all 
things beneath the 
moon." (Agrippa 
of Nettesheim, De 
occulta philosophia, 
1510) 

From: W.B. Yeats, 

A Vision, London 

1925 


"This wheel is every completed movement 
of thought or life, twenty-eight incarna- 
tions, a single incarnation, a single judge- 
mentoract of thought." (W.B. Yeats, 

A Vision, ig25) 

Yeats' diagram, derived from Blake's theo¬ 
ries of cycles and of the four essences 
(Zoas), also functions as a theory of types. 
in the manner of Gurdjieff's enneagram. 

The Great Wheel , Speculum Angelorum et 
Hominum, in: W.B. Yeats, A Vision, London 
1962 



Macrocosm: Moon 


67 

































Moon 


On the images of the head and tail of the moon dragon: "The an- 
cients also made an image of the head and tail of the moon dragon, 
the figure of a serpent with a hawk's head between an airy and fiery 
circle, after the form of the Greek Capital letter theta. They made 
this image when the head of Jupiter occupied the centre of the sky, 
and they attributed to it great influence on the success of petitions; 
they also intended it to designate the good and lucky demon which 

they represented in the form of 
a serpent. The Egyptians and 
Phoenicians placed this creature 
above all others and saw its 
nature as divine because it has a 
sharper mind and a greaterfire 
than the others. This is due both 
to its rapid movement without 
feet, hands or other tools, and 
the fact that it frequently renews 
its age with the sloughing of its 
skin, and rejuvenates itself. - 
They made a similar image of 
the dragon's tail when the moon 
had disappeared in the dragon's 

tail, or occupied an unfavourable position in relation to Saturn or 
Mars." (Agrippa of Nettesheim, De occulta philosophia, 1510) 



68 


Macrocosm: Moon 


Moon 



; tis nves- r/t, 

Si .-m.it ttvfy ■ X 




A paraphrase of 
Dürer's "Melenco- 
lia". (cf. p. 203) 
The bird's head is 
possibly based on 
an illustration of 
the moon dragon 
from Agrippa's 
De occulta philo¬ 
sophia. 

Blake had a special 
relationshipto- 
wardsthe moon, 
asthe ascendant 
in his horoscope 
was in the sign of 
Cancer, which is 
related to the 
moon. Thus 28, 
the number of the 
completed cycle 
of the moon, is of 
great importance 
in his mythology: 
itsignifies thesur- 
mounting of 
traditional ideas 
throughthe act of 
free creation, 
when the muses of 
fantasy are illum- 
inated by the sun 
of imagination. 

W. Blake , 

Jerusalem , 
1804-1820 


Macrocosm: Moon 


69 
















Moon 


Chart forthe 
calculation of the 
daily rising and 
setting of the 
moon and the de- 
gree of its waxing 
and waning. In the 
outer circle: the 
28 phases of the 
moon. 

A. Kircher, Ars 
magna lucis, 
Amsterdam, 1671 



70 


Macrocosm: Moon 


Moon 



Apian's Astronomicum Caesareum is consid- 
ered to be the last Standard astronomical 
work based on the geocentric view of the 
universe. It consists of a series of concen- 
tric cardboard discs moved with threads, 
and from which the interested layman was 
able to read the arithmetical values and 
astronomical constellations as on the face 
of a clock. 


Kepler mocked this "string-pulling": "Who 
will give me a spring of tears, that I may 
admire the lamentable industry of Apianus, 
who, relying upon Ptolemy, wasted so 
many hours representing a whole labyrinth 
of interlocking twists and turns." 

Peter Apian, Astronomicum Caesareum, 
Ingolstadt, 1540 


Macrocosm: Moon 


7i 
























Moon 


This disc from 
Apian's Asfronom- 
icum Caesareum 
enables the user 
to calculate the 
Position of the 
ascending lunar 
node on a particu- 
lardate. 

Thetwo points of 
intersection of the 
moon's orbit and 
the ecliptic are 
called lunar nodes 
or "dragon 
points". The 
ascending node is 
the head of the 
dragon, the 
descending one its 
tail. Both points 
play an important 
part in the calcula- 
tion of the calen- 
dar, and were used 
in classical astron- 
omy, chiefly for 
the calculation of 
solar and lunar 
eclipses. 

P. Apian, 
Astronomicum 
Caesareum , Ingol¬ 
stadt, 1540 












72 


Macrocosm: Moon 


Moon 



Chart for the calculation of solar and lunar A. Kircher, Ars magna lucis , Amsterdam , 7677 

eclipses. According to ancient legends, 

these were due to a dragon swallowing 

the heavenly bodies and spewing them 

out again. 



division of the universe as a river of space 
and time. 

Manuscript , Rajasthan, igth Century 


Macrocosm: Moon 


73 

































Cosmic time 


According to 
medieval calcula- 
tions, one cosmic 
year equalled 
15,000 sun years. 
"It is completed 
when all the stars 
find theirway 
back to a particu- 
lar place." In Politi- 
cos Plato calls it 
the "great year of 
the ancients": 
when its revolu- 
tions have passed 
throughtheap- 
propriate length 
of time, it turns 
around again, i. e. 
time now runs in 
the opposite di- 
rection, rejuvenat- 
ing itself on its 
path. 

According to mod¬ 
ern calculations, 
the duration of 
the "great" year is 
25,868 years, the 
time the point of 
spring takes to 
cross the entire 
zodiac. 

Lambert of 
St Omer, Liber 
Floridus, c. 7720 



74 


Macrocosm: Cosmic time 


Cosmic time 



"Mirror of the causes of all things" 

All of creation opens up like a fan from the 
night of the hidden, divine source. It pours 
from the outer, paternal circle, the Tetra- 
grammaton, into the three Hebrew letters 
called 'mothers': Alef x air (avyr), mem D 
water (mayim) and shin v fire (esh). The 
other circles contain the ten divine names 
and aspects, followed by the Christian- 


Platonic graded cosmos and, in the inner 
circle, are the Tria Prima, the three funda¬ 
mental alchemistic principles of matter. 

The whole plan of creation runs clockwise 
like a day from dawn to the "evening of 
the world". 

R. Fludd, Integrum Morborum 
Mysterium, Frankfurt, 1631 


Macrocosm: Cosmic time 


75 































Cosmic time 


The personifica- 
tion of cosmic 
time, framed by 
the six cosmic ages 
familiär in the 
early Middle Ages. 
The five preceding 
cosmic ages from 
Adam tothe birth 
of Christ were un- 
derthe domina- 
tion of Lucifer, the 
sixth and present 
age was the King¬ 
dom of Christ. 


Parallel tothis: the 
division of the age 
of man falls into 
six sections from 
childhood toold 
age. 


Lambert ofSt 
Omer , Liber 
Floridus, c. 1120 



—— » «turr iTTT^iL 


rT mu 


\ 1 • • .nr 


MV**«* \%\^ 




AvÄni’V winu; cn 
r.t oircKp»» i 
ft to her er itnr, 

ft ji tib* p 

tu? cr.ir /Lgy 


frftc fuo tr»njN 

|uiw ftuani Htwnc 
Jcniünfhinrcm 


loirnr' mimen 


~pofi 


^/\uo.\ud<! eiijdorcof 
'roulu l'oumic tinumim 
carne rollifc i: caim cü län, 

umf »i.Train« 

\niin«: rchinftS. hilf nl 
^TS^U’cIjnipcioiic atrifli 
enuurcamulat-’ 


«tu urci-fin.i 


tfiamst ccfttJ 


dann 


KnoP l»tl<*ftpbi 
alcciiluuiö tdti Jcurc&r 
um..ilicnittr ^ clctiiror o.^o 
liiirr ur dcmni CVm C ^ 
ftnif tiip .irrem c/oihi r 
mutitt^boq Je ru 
lüpqturnf 
upmttrr bo rv/ 
aqirr liipa- 
(ilbui 
uerii 
«jS 
Aq 

frc.ut 

iqms 
acn 
8 ,-iiivo 
mm.u 
re.uun^ 

«Um uo 
Ittare in 
•UTf. .u|ül’ 
pacre ynf. X *, N 
ZU-l'öcm rrc uv 
arliqjcslo cusf- 


76 


Macrocosm: Cosmic time 


Cosmic time 



Thethree cosmic 
ages of Joachim 
of Fiore (c. 1130- 
1202): 

The first age is 
that of the Father 
(bottom), the 
age of the Old 
Testament and is 
formed by the Law 
and by the fear of 
God.The second 
age is that of the 
Son, of the Church 
and of faith in the 
Word. The third 
Age isthat of the 
Holy ghost - 
which Joachim of 
Fiore saw drawing 
near- and isthe 
time of jubilation 
andfreedom. It 
brings with ita 
new intuitive and 
symbolic under- 
Standing of the 
Scriptures, the 
end of the "walled 
church" and the 
foundation of new 
contemplative 
Orders. 

This spiritual age 
isthedawn that 
Jacob Böhme and 
the alchemists saw 
rising on the hori- 
zon, the general 
reformation of the 
Rosicrucians. 

Joachim of Fiore, 
I 2 th Century 


Macrocosm: Cosmic time 


77 



























Lower 

astronomy 



Forthe alchemical opus, the constellations 
of the sun and the moon were particularly 
important: 

"Nowadays everyone knows that the light 
that the moon sends to us is nothing but 
a reflection of the sunlight, along with 
the light of the other stars. Therefore the 
moon is the collecting tank or (...) the well 
of its living water. So if you wish to trans- 
form the rays of the sun into water, choose 
the time when the moon conveys them to 
us in abundance, namely when it is full 
or close to fullness; in this way you will 
receive the fiery water from the rays of the 
sun and the moon in its greatest force (...). 


In Southern France the Work can begin in 
March and again in September, but in Paris 
and the rest of the Empire one cannot 
begin before April, and the second period 
there is so weak that it would be a waste 
of time to occupy oneself with it in the 
autumn". (Anonymous igth-century her- 
metic treatise, quoted in: Canseliet, Die 
Alchemie und ihr Stummes Buch, Amsterdam 
edition, iggi) 

M. Maier, Septimana Philosophica, 
Frankfurt, 1616 


Lower 

astronomy 



"The sun and its shadow complete the 
work" 

"With its light and shadow the Philosoph- 
ical Sun produces an even day and a night 
which we may call the Latona or Magnesia. 
Democritus taught how its shadow might 
be extinguished and burned with a fiery 
medication." 


Latona is a code name for the prima materia 
during the phase of putrefaction and 
blackening (nigredo). In the alchemical 
Work this blackness unites the body with 
the spirit. 

Sulphur (Sol) and Mercurius (Luna) are also 
known as "the sun and its shadow". 

M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 


78 


Macrocosm: Lower astronomy 


Macrocosm: Lower astronomy 


79 












Lower 

astronomy 



ln the view of the alchemists, the metals 
represent the assembled forces of the 
planets, and hence they also referred to 
their art as the "lower astronomy". In 
accordance with the twelve divisions of 
the zodiac, the material must pass through 
twelve gates or stages, until it reaches its 
definitive fixity in reddening, when "the 
zodiac no longer has any power over it". 
(Nicolas Flamel) 


The author of the Aurora consurgens com- 
pares this growth in the lapis with the 
nine-month development of the embryo in 
its mother's womb. According to George 
Ripley (1415-1490), the water that breaks 
at birth is symbolized by the white or lunar 
tincture that precedes the solar reddening 
(above right). 

Aurora consurgens , late I4th Century 


80 


Macrocosm: Lower astronomy 


Stars 



Twelve pagan as- 
trologers (includ- 
ing the poet Virgil 
and the philo- 
sophers Seneca 
and Aristotle) 
immersed in the 
interpretation of 
the stars. 

Book oforacles in 
rhyming Couplets, 
Central Cermany , 
I4th Century 


Macrocosm: Stars 


81 












The horoscope (literally "hour-watch"), 
the record of the constellations at the 
moment of birth, is the expression of be¬ 
lief in man's entanglement in fate and 
predestination. 

"The horoscope is that 'handwriting' of 


which it is said (Paul, Col. II, 14) that He 
(Christ) cancelled the bond (...) He set 
these cosmic powers and authorities to 
the side, nailing them to the cross." (C.G. 
Jung, Mysterium coniunctionis. Zürich, ig68) 

Daniel Cramer , Emblemata Sacra , 1617 


82 


Macrocosm: Stars 


Stars 



The horoscope 
pictures are taken 
from the so-called 
"Heidelberg Book 
of Fate" (end of 
I5th Century), a 
German transla- 
tion of the Astro¬ 
labium planum of 
Petrus of Abano 
(i3th Century). 

Each of the twelve 
signs of the zodiac 
is divided into 
three decans and 
thirty degrees. 

The book also con- 
tained charts for 
determining the 
ascendantandthe 
degree of the zo¬ 
diac rising on the 
eastern horizon at 
the time of birth, 
the knowledge of 
which is the basis 
fordrawing upthe 
horoscope. 


Macrocosm: Stars 


83 









































Stars 


The court astro- 
nomerTerzysko, 
amidst the criss- 
crossing lines 
of astrological 
aspects.Theterm 
"horoscope" only 
became estab- 
lished in the 
Middle Ages. In 
classical antiquity 
there was a prefer¬ 
ence forspeaking 
of the "theme" 
orthe"genesis" 
(Latin "constella- 
tio" and "geni- 
tura"). The estab- 
lishment of the 
angle-relation- 
ships or aspects 
is derived from 
Pythagorean har- 
monics. 

Astronomical 
manuscript of 
Wenceslas IV, 
Prague , 1400 



84 


Macrocosm: Stars 


Stars 


1 1 





Planisphere with 
constellations and 
signs ofthe zodiac, 
manuscript, i6th 
Century 


Macrocosm: Stars 


85 

























w, 


Stars 



The "Southern starry sky of the ancients" 
with the familiär constellations of Greek 
mythology. 

In Giordano Bruno's satire The Dethrone- 
ment of the Beast, published in 1584, Zeus 
personally Orders that these heavenly im- 
ages be replaced by virtues: "Obvious and 
naked to the eyes of men are our vices, 
and the heavens themselves bear witness 


to our misdeeds. Here are the fruits, the 
relics, the history of our adulteries, incest 
whoring, our passions, robberies and sins. 
For to crown our error we have raised the 
triumphs of vice to heaven, and made it 
the home of lawlnessness." 

A. Cellarius, Harmonia Macrocosmica, 
Amsterdam, 1660 


86 


Macrocosm: Stars 


Stars 



This depiction of a "Christian starry sky" 
is based on an original by Julius Schiller 
(Augsburg 1627), who considered it incom- 
patible with his faith "to assign to the 
stars the meanings of evil spirits, animals 
and sinful people", when the Bible has 
it: "The wise leaders shall shine as the 
bright vault of heaven, and those who have 
guided the people in the true path shall 


be like the stars for ever and ever." 

(Daniel 12, 3). 

The "Little Bear" has become the Archangel 
Michael, the "Great Bear" the boat of St 
Peter, and the constellation "Andromeda" 
thetomb of Christ. 

A. Cellarius, Harmonia Macrocosmica, 
Amsterdam, 1660 


Macrocosm: Stars 


87 
























Stars 


"The Jesuit Rheita 
relates bis sweet 
ecstasy at finding 
Veronica's veil 
depicted in the 
sign of Leo, quite 
distinctly, brightly 
and cleariy. The 
wonderful star- 
painting included 
morethan 130 
stars, concentrated 
in the middle like 
a swarm of bees. 
Hecompared the 
picture of Orion 
with Joseph's coat 
of many colours, 
which was splashed 
with many drops of 
blood." (Erasmus 
Franciscus, Das 
eröffnete Lusthaus 
der Ober- und 
Niederwelt, Nurem- 
berg, 1676) 

A. Kircher, Iter 
extaticum 
(Ed. C. Schott), 
Wünburg, 1671 



Jc-orufrrms 


88 


Macrocosm: Stars 


Music of 
the spheres 

In a dream, Scipio saw the heavenly firmament with its nine plan- 

etary orbits. The outermost, the 'primum mobile', is God himself, 

embracing all the others: "'What is that sound, so loud and sweet, 

that fills my ears?' It is the sound which, connected at spaces which 

are unequal but rationally divided in a particular ratio, is caused 

by the Vibration and motion of the spheres them- 

selves, and, biending high notes with low, pro- 

duces various harmonies; for such mighty motions 

cannot speed on their way in silence, and it is 

Nature's will that the outermost sphere on one 

side sounds lowest, and that on the other side 

sounds highest. Hence the uppermost path, bear- 

ing the starry sphere of heaven, which rotates at 

the greatest speed, moves with a high and excited 

sound, while that of the moon and the nethermost 

sphere has the lowest. For the Earth, the ninth of 

the spheres and static, remains fixed to one spot at 

the centre of the universe. But those eight spheres of which two pos- j. Bomitus, 

sess the same power, produce seven different sounds, a number that Embiematum 

Sacorum, Heidel- 

is the key to almost everything (...)" (Cicero, De re publica) berg, 7559 

"Nature-Music contains within itself the nature of all things / 

(...) it is the great cosmos-music / the wonderful harmony of heaven / 
of the elements and of all the creatures / and especially of human 
music / what develops here is either in harmonic agreement of the 
human body / or of all of the inner and outer senses" (Athanasius 
Kircher, Musurgia universalis, 1662) 

"The shine of the stars makes the melody, Nature underthe 
moon dances to the laws governing this melody." (Johannes Kepler, 

Harmonices Mundi, 161g) 



Macrocosm: Music of the spheres 


89 



Music of 
the spheres 


The theory of the harmony of the spheres dates back to the Greek 
philosopher Pythagoras ( 570-496 B.C.). 

According to a legend told by lambilochos, when Pythagoras 
heard the different sound made by hammers in a forge, he realized 
that tones can be expressed in quantitative relationships, and hence 
in numerical values and geometrical measures. Using stringed 
instruments, he then discovered the connection between Vibration 
frequencies and pitch. The whole worid, according 



to Pythagoras' theory, consisted of harmony and 
number. Both the microcosmic soul and the macro- 
cosmic universe were assembled according to ideal 
proportions, which can be expressed in a sequence 
of tones. 

The pitches of the individual planetary tones 
of the celestial scale were derived from their 
orbital speeds, and the distances between them 
were placed in relationship to the musical intervals. 
Kepler complicated the System somewhat by assign- 
ing a whole sequence of tones to each planet. The 
series that he believed he had found for the earth 
(Mi Fa Mi) came to represent for him, shortly after 
the outbreak of the Thirty Years' War, the fact "that 


Misere and Farnes (hunger) rule in our vale of tears". 


F. Caffurio, 
Theorica musica i, 
Milan , 1492 


According to Genesis 4, 21, Jubal (ill. top left), a descendant of 
Cain, was the father of all such as handle the harp and organ". For 


Kepler, this figure is none other than Apollo, and Kepler also believed 


that Pythagoras was Hermes Trismegistus. 


90 


Macrocosm: Music of the spheres 



Music of 
the spheres 


ln the bottom 
left-hand comer, 
Pythagoras is 
pointing to the 
smiths who had in- 
spired him. Here 
they are at work 
inside an ear. 
Kircher goes into 
great detail about 
its 'wonderful 
anatomical pre- 
paration', with 
hammer and anvil. 


According to the 
theorist of Neo- 
platonic music, 
Boethius, (5th 
Century A.D.), 
terrestrial 'musica 
instrumentalis' is 
but a shade of the 
'musica mundana', 
the music of the 
spheres repres- 
ented by the 
sphere at the 
centre. This in turn 
is merely a faint 
echo of thedivine 
music of the nine 
choirsof angels. 


A. Kircher , 
Musurgia univer- 
salis, Rome , 1650 


Macrocosm: Music of the spheres 











Music of 
the spheres 


Diagram of the 
Ptolemaic cosmos 
giving the inter- 
vals meant to cor- 
respond to the dis- 
tances between 
the heavenly bod- 
iesandtheirvari- 
ous speeds: Earth 
- Moon: a whole 
tone, Moon - 
Mercury - Venus: 
a semitone each, 
Venus - Sun: three 
semitones, Sun - 
Mars: a whole 
tone, Mars - 
Jupiter-Saturn: 
a semitone each, 
Saturn - fixed 
stars: three whole 
tones. 

Astronomical 
manuscript 
anthology, 
Salzburg, 
c.A.D. 820 



$XIUK.sr 


TON US. 


SIM1IÖ 


StMJTO 


TONUS 


SfMITO 


SfMITÖ 


92 


Macrocosm: Music of the spheres 


Music of 
the spheres 



The assignment of 
the nine spheres to 
the nine Muses 
was the result of a 
harmonic Vision by 
the Neo-Pythago- 
rean, Martianus 
Capelia (5th Cen¬ 
tury A.D.). The 
scale covers a full 
octave. 


J RA ) ^ Nlj\ 

yOViHY-M 


The concord is con- 
ducted by Apollo, 
the Prime Mover. 
Flowing rhythmi- 
cally throughthe 
spheres is the 
Egyptian serpent 
of the life-force. 

Its three heads 
represent the 
divine trinity in the 
three dimensions 
of space and the 
three aspects of 
time. 


MELPO EIMENS 


Tragedy is as- 
signed to the sun, 
comedy to the 
earth. 


rERffTP5ICHOR£ 


A. Kircher, Ars 
magna lucis, Rome, 

1665 


CALU 




Macrocosm: Music of the spheres 





Music of 
the spheres 


Music of 
the spheres 


According to 
Fludd, "the mono 
chord is the inter¬ 
nal principle 
which, from the 
centre of the 
whole, brings 
about the har- 
mony of all life in 
the cosmos." 


In his Musurgia uni¬ 
versal is (of the 
miraculous power 
and effect of con- 
sonances and dis- 
sonances) Kircher 
developedthe idea 
of God as an organ- 
builder and Organ¬ 
ist, and compared 
the six-day labour 
of creation with 
the six registers of 
a cosmic organ. 


lcomlimts XXIII 


^, ^mo j(' 

IvCENTIS M.VNDI 


Htf, 


HARMONIA NAS, 


Har monia 


By altering the 
tension of the 
strings, God, the 
"Great Chord", is 
ableto determine 
the density of all 
materials between 
Empyreum and 
Earth. 


m mtJMi J Vl-dtti 


Like Fludd, Kircher 
divided the various 
zones of Heaven 
and Earth into oc- 
taves. The organ- 
ist's art appeared 
primarily in the 
accord of the four 
elements. 


The instrument is 
divided in half into 
an upper, ideal, 
active octave and 
a lower, material, 
passive octave. 
andthese are in 
turn divided into 
fourths and fifths. 
On these intervals 
the upper, prin¬ 
ciple of light 
moves down into 
dark matter, and at 
their intersection 
the sun assumes 
the power of 
transformation. 


A. Kircher; 
Musurgia univer¬ 
sale, Rome, 1650 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


er ra 


Macrocosm: Music of the spheres 


Macrocosm: Music of the spheres 





Music of 
the spheres 


“The ancient philosophers assumed that 
the worid consisted of a perfect harmony, 
namely, from the earth to the starry 
heavens is a perfect octave." (A. Kircher, 
Musurgia universalis). The seven Steps of 
the octave were seen as containing the 
worid, for it Is the number seven that links 
the divine trinity to the quadernity of the 
elements. In 1922 the Caucasian philo¬ 
sophier and dancing teacher G. Gurdjieff 
founded his famous "Institute for the 
Harmonie Education of Man" in Fontaine¬ 
bleau, based on the law of the octave. 


Trismegistus in Asclepius: "Music is noth¬ 
ing but knowing the order of all things." 

For Kepler there was no doubt "that either 
Pythagoras speaks in a Hermetic way or 
Hermes in a Pythagorean way." 
[Harmonices Mundi) 

A. Kircher, Musurgia universalis, Rome, 1650 


"In every line of development there are 
two points where movement can go no 
further without external help. At two 
specific points an additional impulse from 
an external force is necessary. At these 
points everything needs an impulse, 
otherwise it can move no further. We find 
this "law of the seven" everywhere - in 
chemistry, in physics, etc.: the same law is 
at work in all things. The best example of 
this law is the structure of the scale. Let us 
clarify this with an octave." 

( Gurdjieff's Conversations, Basle, 1982) 




Reconstruction of the Pythagorean cos- 
mos according to the plan of the octave. 

Stanley, History of Philosophy 


96 


Macrocosm: Music of the spheres 




Music of 
the spheres 


The harmonic symbolism ofantiquity by The Pythagorean Philolaos (c. 400 B.C.) 

Albert Freiherr v. Thimus (1806-1878) is a referred to a counter-earth, which fol- 
large-scale attempt to reconstruct the lowed the same orbit as the earth, but was 

Pythagorean foundations of music from always on the opposite side and therefore 

Neoplatonic sources, and to establish invisible. Both bodies orbited around the 

harmonics as an autonomous Science. He central fire. 
based his work on the untenable hypothe- 

sis that the Pythagorean concept of the Albert Freiherr v. Thimus, Die harmonikale 

worid was based on the Cabalistic book of Symbolik des Altertums, Cologne, 1868 
creation. The Sefer Yezirah is about the 
ten primal numbers, the Sephiroth, which 
he linked in the upper part of the diagram 
to the planetary orbits. 



Macrocosm: Music of the spheres 


97 



Genesis 


According to Pythagoras, the structure of 
the world is based on the consonant inter- 
vals of the octave, the fifth and the fourth. 
The numbers of their proportions 2:1, 

3:2 and 4:3 are the 'holy diversity' of the 
Pythagoreans, called the tetractys: 
1+2+3+4=10. "Progress from oneness to 
the number four and the ten emerges, the 
motherof allthings." 

Within this formula lies the entire act of 
creation, from the Splitting of the primal 
element into sexual duality, its propaga- 
tion into the space-forming trinity, 
through to its completion in the four ele- 
ments. 

Robert Fludd, Philosophia Sacra , 

Frankfurt , 1626 




In the Cabala, the work of creation unfolds 
according to a similar pattern, in four 
steps starting with the letters of the tetra- 
grammaton, the unpronounceable divine 
name: in alchemy too this fourfold Step, 
the 'axiom of Maria Prophetissa'. plays a 
leading part. 

The tetragrammaton as a tetractys 


The tetractys also forms the basis of the 
image of the cosmic soul, to whose struc¬ 
ture in the form of a Chi (X) Plato refers in 
the 'Timaeus'. In line with the law of the 
proportional division of the chord, the 
matrix of all earthly phenomena unfolds 
here as a network of Coordinates of frac- 
tions and multiples. 

The Pythagorean 'Chi' 


36 

y 30 30 x-y X 

10 9 16 21 24 25 24 21 16 9 10 

9 8 14 18 20 20 16 14 8 9 

8 7 12 15 16 15 12 7 8 

7 6 10 12 12 10 6 7 

6 5 8 9 8 5 6 

5 4 6 6 4 5 

4 3 4 3 4 

3 2 2 3 

2 1 2 


9 

10 

V. 


8 

X 


X 

% 


5 

6 

■4 

V, 

X 

X 

X 

V. 


2 


3 

4 X 


X 

X 

X 

X 


X 



1 # 1 
1 I 


*4 

% 

X 

X 

X 


V, 

Y. 

X 

X 

X 

V, 

X 

X 

X 

X 


2 

3 

X 

X 

X 

■4 

Y, 

% 

% 

X 

\ 


x 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 


6 


7 



8 

X 


10 

y 


98 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


Genesis 



ln theTantric Vi¬ 
sion, an invisible 
power-point 
(bindu) produces 
the primal matter 
(prakriti), which 
consists of three 
qualities (gunas): 
sattva (essence, 
peace), rajas (en- 
ergy, passion) and 
tamas (substance, 
inertia). 

Atthe beginning 
of creation the 
three are in equi- 
librium; only their 
disharmony brings 
forth the world of 
diversity. 

In Finnegans Wake 
Joyce draws a par¬ 
allel between the 
gunas and Blake's 
fourbeings (Zoas, 
cf. pp. 652-653) 

Painting, 

Rajasthan, c. i8th 
Century 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


99 













































Successive utter- 
ances of thedivine 
name produce 
thefourworids 
of Aziluth, Beriah, 
Yezirah and Assiya. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. II , 
Frankfurt, 1621 


From the great 
tetragrammaton 
flow the ten 
"epithets" of God. 
These embody 
various aspects 
of the godhead, 
which in tum 
correspond to the 
ten primal num- 
bers, the Sephiroth 

1. Crown 

2. Wisdom 

3. Prudence 

4. Clemency 

5. Power 

6. Grace 

7. Triumph 

8. Honour (Farne) 
g. Redemption 
10. Kingdom. 


quoted a rabbi's admonition to a Torah 
writer: "My son, be careful at your work 
for it is God's work; if you leave out but 
one letter or write but one letter too 
many. you destroy the whole world (...)** 
(G. Scholem, On the Kabbalah andits 
Symbols, New York. ig67) 


The tetragrammaton. the holy name of 
God with the four letters JHVH (Jehova), 
concentrates within itself all of the ele- 
mental strength and power from which 
creation arose. "The visible world, with its 
teeming creatures, is none otherthan the 
word transpired," wrote Böhme. All things 
arise out of combinations or rearrange- 
ments of these four letters. 


Sephardi Bible, 1385 


Illustrating the magical meaning of the 
word in Hebrew, Gershom Scholem 


R. Fludd 

Philosophia Sacra, 
Frankfurt, 1626 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


Macrocosm: Genesis 

































Genesis 


Genesis 


Three Symbols of 
the Trinity 

III. i: Eye. The 
white: the Father, 
the iris: the Son, 
the pupil: the Holy 
Spirit 

III. 2: Sun.Theorb: 
the Father, the 
light: the Son, the 
heat: the Holy 
Spirit 

III. 3: Storm.The 
consuming fire: 
the Father, the 
thunder: the Son, 
the lightning- 
flash: the Holy 
Spirit 

III. 1 emphasizes 
the self-contained 
aspect of thedi- 
vine Trinity as the 
original reflection 
of eternity, ill. 2 
the life-giving 
aspect, ill. 3 the 
procreative aspect: 
the seed falls from 
the cloud. 

R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi , Vol. II, 
Frankfurt, 1621 




102 


Macrocosm: Genesis 



Macrocosm: Genesis 


Yod asthe crown 
(Kether) repre- 
sentsthe hidden, 
original essence of 
God, En-Sof, is 
called the Infinite. 
He is the higher 
palace God's mag- 
nificent throne- 
world, Vau, is that 
which connects, 
the angelic world 
of forms. The 
lower He is 
equated with As - 
siya, the spiritual 
archetype of the 
material world. 

For Jacob Böhme 
and other Christ¬ 
ian Cabalists, the 
Tetragrammaton is 
an expression of 
the trinity: "The 
unity when the 
J. goesinto itself 
intoathreefold 
being (...)to an 
active life." 

(J. Böhme, Quaes- 
tiones Theosophi- 
cae) 

R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. II, 
Frankfurt, 1621 


103 







Genesis 


And so on for ever 


R. FluddUtriusque 
Cosmi’, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 





Forthe Paracelsian Robert Fludd, the 
divine act of creation took on concrete 
and visible form as an alchemical process, 
in which God, as a spagyrist, divided pri- 
mal, dark chaos, the Prima Materia, into 
the three divine, primary elements of 
light, darkness and spiritual waters. These 
waters, in turn, were the roots of the four 
Aristotelian elements, of which earth is 
the coarsest and the heaviest, comparable 
to the dark Sediment, the "raven's head" 
that is left on the bottom of the retort in 
the process of distillation. 


No wonder, wrote Fludd, that our planet is 
such a vale of tears, given that it has 
emerged from the Sediment of creation, 
where the devil dwells. 

" When the secret of secrets wished to 
reveal himself, he began to produce a 
point of light. Before that point of light 
broke through and became apparent, the 
infinite (en soph) was entirely hidden and 
radiated no light." (Zohar) 

R. Fludd , Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. I , 
Oppenheim, 1617 




Genesis 




Light, the inex- 
haustible source 
of allthings, ap- 
pears in the dark¬ 
ness and with it 
the watery spirits 
that begin to 
divide into near 
(bright) and far 
(dark). 


In the centre are 
the dark waters, 
far from the light, 
forming the source 
of matter; at the 
edge are the up- 
per waters, from 
which the divine 
fiery heaven 
(Empyreum) will 
unfold. The bright 
cloud in between 
isa state "called 
variously the 
Earth-spirit, the 
Spirit of Mercury, 
the Ether and the 
Quintessence." 

R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


105 


104 


Macrocosm: Genesis 











The chaos of the 
elements from 
the lower waters 
"is a confused and 
undigested mass 
in which the four 
elements fight 
against each 


The ideal final 
state of material 
is achieved when 
the elements are 
arranged accord- 
ing tothe degrees 
of their density: 
(from outside to 
inside) Earth, Wa¬ 
ter, Air and Fire. In 
the centre appears 
the Sun, gold. 


R. Fludd', Utriusque 
Cosmi , Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


Genesis 



The first day of 
creation: 

"Let there be 
light, said God; 
and forthwith 
Light/(...) Sprung 
from the deep; 
and from her 
native east/ To 
journey through 
theaery gloom 
began,/Sphered 
in a radiant cloud, 
for yet the sun/ 
Was not (...)." 
(John Milton, 
Paradise Lost 1667) 


The dove is the 
spirit of God. 

"The uncreated 
light of the spirit 
reflected in the 
sphere of the fiery 
firmament as in a 
mirror, and the 
reflections in their 
tum, are the first 
manifestations of 
created light." 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


107 



Genesis 


The earth belongs 
to the lowest level 
ofthe elements, 
the sediment of 
creation. 


According to the 
proportions, the 
grossest element 
couples with the 
most subtle when 
the elements of 
air and water are 
produced. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


108 



ü&m 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


Genesis 



The second day 

“And God said, Let there be a vault 
between the waters to separate wa¬ 
ter from water (...) And God called the 
vault Heaven." (Genesis 1,6 and 8) 

The ethereal sphere with the fixed 
stars and planets divides the upper 
waters (Empyreum) from the lower. 

In this sphere the upper heavenly 
quality (form) is in balance with the 
lower heavenly quality (material). 



The third day 

Fire arises as the first and most 
subtle element. 

This is not, as Fludd stressed, the 
'invisiblefire' ofthe alchemists, but 
the material fire that Paracelsus 
called the 'dark' fire, which leads 
everything alive to destruction. Life 
in the Paracelsian sense is a process 
of destruction by fire. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


109 







Genesis 


Genesis 


The sequence by 
which the ele- 
ments are ordered 
in an ascending 
degree of purity- 
earth. water, air 
and fire - is 
repeated in the 
structure of the 
entire cosmos 
fromthe sublu* 
nary, elemental 
heavens, the ethe- 
real heaven to the 
empyrean. 




"The perturba- 
tions attendant 
on creation had 
caused some of 
the celestial light 
to be trapped in 
the cold mass of 
the central earth. 
Obeying the law 
of gravity, this 
celestial substance 
began to rise 
towards its right - 
ful place in the 
heavens, and it 
was thusthat our 
sun was formed." 


The stars on the 
outer edge of the 
ethereal sphere 
only became 
visible with the 
creation of the 
sun, forthey störe 
its light and after a 
space of time emit 
it again like phos- 
phorous. 


R. Fludd , Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 




In thefirmament 
the sun isthe 
visible represent- 
ative of the divine 
fire and of love. Its 
corresponding 
part in the human 
body is the heart, 
"which emits its 
vital rays {the 
veins) in a circle 
from the centre, 
andthusanimates 
each individual 
limb". (Robert 
Fludd, Philosoph /'- 
call Key, c. 1619) 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


110 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


111 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


Genesis 


When the sinking, 
hot raysofthesun 
encounter rising, 
watery steam, 
they condense and 
give rise tothe 
planets. 





The spirit of God 
hovers as a dove 
above perfect 
creation, which is 
already menaced 
by the Fall. In the 
'Tractatus apolo- 
geticus', Fludd 
emphasized that 
the chief goal of 
macrocosmic 
study must be to 
study the role of 
the divine spirit in 
creation, for with- 
out the light ema- 
nating fromthis 
spirit, life is not 
possible. 



R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. /, 
Oppenheim , 1617 


112 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


Genesis 


-NoA*. 



The emergence of 
the earthly world 
from the "dark and 
gloomy waters", 
from the chaos 
(No. 55) in which 
Lucifer-Saturn was 
imprisoned after 
his fall from the 
heavenly world of 
light. After the 
division of light 
and darkness 
(No. 56 + 57), God 
(Elohim)created 
the seven element- 
ary regions of the 
universe from the 
outermost fiery 
waters of light 
(Shamayim) tothe 
innermost central 
fire, the "grim 
mire", in which 
Luciferdwells 
until the day of 
judgement. 

Georg von Welling 
(pseudonym of 
Gregorius Anglus 
Sallwigt), Opus 
mago-cabalisticum , 
Frankfurt , 171g 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


H3 
























Genesis 


Eye 





The underlying plan of this Masonic tapes- 
try is the circle with a point at the centre, 
the sign of gold. The earth in the centre 
signifies the 'true lodge' which must be 
established, the sounding of the spiritual, 
inner space. The compass and the set* 
square stand for reason and conscientious* 
ness at work. According to Kirchweger, 
the two signs CD and 0 , nitrum (saltpetre) 
and alkaline salt embody the dual prin- 


ciples of male and female, mind and spirit, 
active and passive. These are to be united 
via seven planetary stages of Sublimation, 
thus transforming the 'red stone' ( Prima 
Materia: apprentice) into the 'sculpted 
stone' (final state: lapis). 

Die Theoretischen Brüder oder zweite Stufe 
der Rosenkreutzer..., Regensburg, 1785 


Cosmological depiction of the alchemisti- 
cal Work in the form of an eyeball. From 
the pupil, the macrocosmic chaos of four 
olements, the spherical lapis emerges as 
the renewed, smaller world. The arms that 
raise it up are "the two major parts of the 
Work, the dissolution of the body (solve) 
and the hardening of the spirit (coagula)". 
Red and white water pours from the rebis, 
the twofold aspect of material, to form 
the viscose, vitreous body of the cosmic 
eye. the sea of time and space. 


The bird represents the phases of the 
Work. It is composed of the raven (putre- 
factio), the swan (albedo), the peacock 
(phase of bright colours) and the phoenix 
(rubedo). 

In this instance the Pythagorean tetraktys 
forms the optic nerve. 

H. Khunrath, Amphitheatrum 
sapientiae aetema, 1602 


114 


Macrocosm: Genesis 


Macrocosm: Eye 


115 














The composition of the eye according to 
Fludd: 


In the medieval 
view, the eye con- 
sisted of three dif¬ 
ferent forms of 
condensation of 
physical fluid. 
According tothe 
theory of the Ara- 
bian scholar Avi- 
cenna (980-1037), 
an icy fluid forms 
the centre of the 
eye. In front of it is 
the watery area, 
behind itthecrys- 
talline area. It is 
clad in seven robes 
orskins (tunicas), 
to which the seven 
planetary spheres 
correspond in 
the macrocosm. 
The Cabalists con¬ 
nected thisten- 
part structure of 
the eye with the 
Sephiroth. The 
blind spot wasa 
term applied to 
the highest 
Sephira "Kether", 
the crown, orthe 
divine void in all 
things. 


1. The ice-like, lens-shaped area is trans 
parent and of medium hardness. 


2. The watery, whitish area surrounds the 
first as the egg-white surrounds the yolk. 


3. The glass-like, gleaming area supplies 
the first two with nourishment from the 
blood. 


R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi , Vol. II, 
Oppenheim, 1619 


"(...) the eye of man (is) an image of the 
world and all the colours in it are arranged 
in circles. The white of the eye corres- 
ponds to the ocean, which surrounds the 
whole world on all sides; a second colour 
is the mainland, which the ocean sur¬ 
rounds, or which lies between the waters; 
a third colour in the middle region: 
Jerusalem, the centre of the world. But a 
fourth colour, the vision of the whole eye 
itself (...) is Zion, the midpoint of every- 
thing, and visible within it is the 
appearance of the whole world." (Zohar) 


tttvuus 


R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. II, 
Oppenheim, 1619 


Gregor Reisch, 
Pretiosa Margarita, 
Freiburg, 1503; 
Baste, 1508 


Macrocosm: Eye 


Macrocosm: Eye 


Eye 



Large parts of William Blake's poetry are 
concerned with a detailed engagement 
with Isaac Newton's materialist view of 
the world, particularly his optics. In Blake's 
view the physical eye is dull and dim "like 
a black pebble in a churning sea", and 
the optic nerve, to which Newton pays 
homage, "builds stone bulwarks against 
the raging sea". (Blake, Milton, 1804) 

Blake instead turned to the work of Jacob 
Böhme, and attempted to develop an 
optics of the visionary. 



According to the hypothesis of Easson and 
Easson, which fails to take into account 
many aspects of the poetry, every level of 
Blake's poem 'Milton' is based on an 
optical model, inscribed within the form 
of the cosmicegg. 

K. P. Easson and R. R. Easson, A hypothetical 
model for the visionary geography in 
'Milton', from: W. Blake, Milton, London, 
1979 


The astronomer and mathematician John 
Dee (1527-1608) used the egg as a glyph 
for the ethereal heavens, becausethe 
orbit of the planets within it forms an oval. 
(Even Copernicus assumed that planetary 
orbits were circular.) 

For Paracelsus "the sky is a Shell which 
separates the world and God's heaven 
from one another, as does the Shell the 
egg". "The yolk represents the lower 
sphere, the white the upper; the yolk: 
earth and water, the white: air and fire". 
[Paragranum, 1530) 

John Dee, Monas Hieroglyphica, Antwerp, 

1564 


118 


Macrocosm: Eye 


Cosmic egg 



The four intersect- 
ing globes are in¬ 
scribed with the 
names of the four 
Zoas, the apoca- 
lyptic creatures 
that represent the 
elemental forces 
of the universe. 
Urthona/Los is 
the imagination, 
Luvah passion, 
Urizen reason and 
Tharmas the body. 

"The egg-shaped 
world of Los", 
which swells from 
the swiriing centre 
of chaos, forms 
the illusory three- 
dimensional space 
defined by the 
two boundaries of 
opacity (Satan) 
and material con- 
densation (Adam). 
They obstruct 
man'sfree vision 
of things as they 
really are accord¬ 
ing to Blake, 
namely eternal 
and infinite. 

W. Blake, Milton, 
1804-1808 


Macrocosm: Cosmic egg 


ii9 





















Cosmic egg 


Hildegard von Bin- 
gen's vision of the 
cosmos 

"ThenIsaw a huge 
object, round and 
shadowy. Like an 
egg it was pointed 
atthe top (...)• 

Its surrounding, 
outer layer was 
bright fi re (Empy- 
reum). Beneath 
this layadark skin. 
In the bright fire 
hovered a reddish, 
sparkling fireball 
(the Sun)“. Beneath 
the dark skin she 
saw the ethereal 
sphere with moon 
and stars, and 
beneath this a zone 
of mist whichshe 
called the'white 
skin' orthe 'upper 
water'. 

Hildegard von 
Bingen, Scivias 
(Rupertsberg 
Codex), 

I2th Century 



120 


Macrocosm: Cosmic egg 


Cosmic egg 



The genesis of the world of the elements 
between the celestial world of light and 
the chaotic underworld. Johann J. Becher 
(1635-1682) described the interplay of the 
elements as follows: "Earth thickens and 
attracts, water breaks down and purifies, 
air makes fluid and dries, fire divides and 
completes". 


The engraving is inspired by illustrations 
from Kircher's Mundus subterreaneus 
(2 vols, 1665,1678) (cf. p. 17g). These show 
a subterranean central fire linked directly 
to volcanoes and Underground waters 
which feed the superterrestrial seas. 

JJ. Becher, Opuscula chymica, Nuremberg, 

1719 


Macrocosm: Cosmic egg 


121 




































Opus Magnum 


In reference to the divine work of creation 
and the plan of salvation within it, the alchemistic 
process was called the 'Great Work'. In it, 
a mysterious chaotic source material called 
materia prima, containing opposites still 
incompatible and in the most violent conflict, is 
gradually guided towards a redeemed state of 
perfect harmony, the healing 'Philosophers' Stone' 
or lapis philosophorum : "First we bring together, 
then we putrefy, we break down what has been 
putrified, we purify the divided, we unite the 
purified and harden it. In this way is One made from 
man and woman." 

(Büchlein vom Stein der Weisen, 1778) 

















Genesis 
in the retort 

"It ascends/ saith Hermes Trismegistus in his Emerald Tablet/ from 
Earth to Heaven: by which words the circulating distillation is most 
beautifully explained/ as also this/ that the Chymical Vessel/ is made 
or arranged in the same way as the natural Vessel. For we see/ or 
find/ that the whole Heavens/ and the Elementa are like a sphere 
round and sweet in nature/ in whose mid-point or innermost essence 
the heat of the subterranean Fire is very strong and powerful/ which 
drives the more subtle matter of the Elements upwards into the Air/ 
and at the same time rises upwards itself." (Conrad Horlacher, Kern 
und Stern, Frankfurt, 1707) 

"Place this in the right oven of the philosophers/ and seal it in a 
constant and ever-changing prison/ which should be quite transpar¬ 
ent/ light and clear like a crystal and round in shape like a celestial 
sphere. (...) But this heaven of yours must be kept safe with three 
bulwarks and walls (triple oven)/ so that not more than a single 
entrance/ is well-guarded: for the celestial city will be besieged by 
earthly enemies." (anonymous, Nodus Sophicus Enodatus, 163g) 

"But it is necessary that the vessel be round in shape, so that 
the artist may transform the firmament and the top of the skull." 
(Theatrum chemicum, 1622) 

"The (Philosophers') Stone is made in the image of the Creation 
of the World. For one must have its chaos and its prime matter, in 
which the elements float hither and thither, all mixed together, until 
they are separated by the fiery spirit. And when this has happened, 
the light is lifted up, while the heavy is brought downwards." 

(J. d'Espagnet, Das Geheime Werk, Nuremberg, 1730) 


124 


Opus Magnum: Genesis in the retort 




Genesis 
in the retort 




'The creation of 
the world" 



Hieronymus Bosch, 
outerwings ofthe 
”Garden of De- 
lights " c. 7570 







Genesis 
in the retort 


The following series of illustrations is taken from the Elementa chemi- 
cae of the Leiden chemistry professor J.C. Barchusen. He had them 
engraved from an old manuscript "to do a great favour to the adepts 
of gold-making". He was of the opinion that they described the pro- 
duction of the Philosopher's Stone "not only in better Order, but also 
with a more correct emphasis" than anything eise that he had seen 
hitherto. 

In orderto attain the lapis, the alchemist had to make a funda¬ 
mental decision on which path to follow: a short "dry" path, in which 
the Separation of the matter took place under the influence of exter- 
nal heat and the involvement of a secret "inner fire", and a "wet" 
path, which was much longer and only led to its goal through many 
distillations. The latter is illustrated here. 

The main role in this process is played by the philosophical Mer- 
cury, not ordinary quicksilver, but a mysterious substance whose 
origins are entirely shrouded in darkness. 

The material Spirit is extracted from it. The legendary Azoth 
comes, as the agent of the Work, in the form of a dove. Like the 
doves that Noah sent forth to learn whether the waters had abated, 
it only ends its flight when the lapis is finally fixed. 

Its twenty-seven-fold flight upwards and downwards here and 
in a related series of illustrations corresponds, in William Blake's 
mythology, to the flight of the twenty-seven larks, which act as 
bearers of conventional ideas. Only the twenty-eighth brings 
enlightenment and an escape from the retort's restricted field of 
vision. It is destroyed when the lapis is complete. 

The commentaries on the individual illustrations follow the 
explanations provided by Barchusen. 

He himself, by his own account, was never witness to a trans- 
mutation, and repeatedly declared that in all his instructions he had 
to rely entirely on speculation. 


126 


Opus Magnum: Genesis in the retort 



WMiä 






Genesis 
in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


6. The chamois 
represent spirit 
and soul, which 
uniteto form 
phiiosophical 
mercury. 

7. The six planets 
embody the 
metals to which 
the bird mercury 
is related. The 
locked trunk says 
that thepathto 
this quicksilver is 
hidden. 

8. The inner circles 
are thefour 
elements, which 
form the basic 
material of the 
seven metals 
(fixed stars). 

g. Sulphur(sun) 
and mercury 
(moon), male and 
female. 

J.C. Barch usen, 
Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 






10. Through con- 
tact with the moon 
andthesun, philo- 
sophical mercury 
attains the power 
of fertilizing the 
earth. 

11. Sulphurand 
mercury must be 
freed by fire from 
the material which 
contains them. 

12. Purification of 
phiiosophical 
mercury by Sub¬ 
limation. 

13. Phiiosophical 
mercury isjoined 
once more to its 
sulphur, so that 

a homogenous 
liquid is produced. 

J.C. Barchusen, 
Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 






128 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


12g 








































































mMiailMiilMMIiMMl 























own tail" andthe 
lapisisdissolved. 


J.C. Barchusen, 
Elements chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


Leiden, 1718 



























142 


Opus Magnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 

in the retort 


62.-65. The lapis 
must be burned 
strongly and fora 
iongtime. 


J.C. Barchusen, 
Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


Genesis 
in the retort 



67.-6g. The mass 
is moistened 
again, because the 
more often the 
stone is distilled 
the greater is its 
capacity to penet- 
rate and to colour 
(tincture). 

J.C. Barchusen, 
Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


Opus Magnum: Genesis in the retort 


143 







144 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 


J.C. Barchusen, 
Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


70.-74. In ator- 
ture by fire lasting 
several days, 
the stone now 


matures to its 
perfection and 
resurrection. 



late." 

Spirit and soul 
have now com* 
pletely penetrated 
the body, father 
and son are 
united, transience 
and death have 
lost all their 
power. 

J.C. Barchusen, 
Elementa chemi- 
cae, Leiden, 1718 


145 









Genesis 
in the retort 


The splendid illustrations with the seven glass retorts "hermetically" 
sealed are taken from the treatise Splendorsolis (The sun's splen- 
dour") of Salomon Trismosin, a i6th Century German alchemist, 
whose existence has not been historically proven. 

In the anthology Aureum vellus (Rorschach, 1598), he teils of his 
travels, which led him to distant lands, where he encountered "cab- 
balistic and magic books" and the "whole treasure of the Egyptians", 
namely "the three powerful tinctures of the greatest pagan kings." 

Just as unoriginal as this pseudo-biography is the way to the 
philosopher's stone that he indicated in 'Splendor solis\ This is only 
one of the countless compilations that were sold at the time, draw- 
ing on a limited fund of alchemistical legends, proverbs and doc- 
trines. Goethe spoke in this context of the monotonous ringing of a 
bell, more likely to drive one into madness than to prayer. 

The treatise is famous only for its illustrations, which exist in 
several versions. The earliest, from 1535, comes from Nikolaus Glock- 
endon's Nuremberg book-painting workshop. 

The following depictions of retorts refer only vaguely to pas- 
sages in the text in which Trismosin speaks of the "governments of 
fire" which pass through the zodiac following the course of the sun. 
"When the Sun is in Aries, it shows the first degree" (weak heat); 
when it is in Leo, the heat rises to the zenith, and in Saturn it is 
restrained. 

In the illustrations, the seven phases of the Work are also linked 
to astrological motifs, namely the depictions of the planet rulers and 
their children. 

Life on earth was seen as the reflection or shadow of a celestial 
Order. Every destiny, estate and profession came under the influence 
of a particular planet ruler. The school of Dürer further developed 
this canon of motifs of the children of the planets, which had been 
handed down from the Middle Ages. 


146 


Opus Magnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 












IMF' il 




mW 9 

LaVS 1 



Kp Nro v iifl 
K ;■ fl 

1 \ Jjf 1 



H KP § 

Wh j 

| 


The sickle that 
Saturn holds in his 
hand indicates 
that he represents 
the restrictive 
sides of life. He is 
the portal of death 
(left), through 
which the raw ma¬ 
terial (earth, right) 
must pass. The 
incarnation of the 
solid principle also 
clutches the staff, 
or caduceus, of 
his adversary 
Mercury, showing 
that all opposites 
mysteriously 
cooperate in the 
Work. 

In the retort, 
Mercurius fires up 
the"primaterial" 
dragon and gives 
it wings: that is, 
it begins to vapor- 
ize. The blood 
with which he 
feeds it is the uni¬ 
versal spirit, the 
soul of all things. 

S. Trismosin 1, 
Splendor solis , 
London , 
i6th Century 


Build our dead dragon back up with blood, that it may live. 




Opus Magnum: Genesis in the retort 


147 










































Genesis 
in the retort 


After the Satur¬ 
nine restriction 
Jupiter promises 
good fortune and 
wealth. His chil- 
dren are the great 
dignitaries of soci- 
ety. The phase of 
multiplication in 
the Work is as- 
signed to him.The 
mass in the retort 
is in a seething 
transitional stage, 
indicated by the 
fighting birds, 
clad in the three 
colours of the 
Work. 

S. Trismosin, 
Splendorsolis, 
London, 
i6th Century 




jSJL— =; _L_ 



ri%l 



j||] 


------ * 


* 1 


148 


Opus Magnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 







As the numberof 
heads of the bird 
reveals, the matter 
has now been 
thrice sublimated, 
and is in a gaseous 
state. Bellicose 
Mars arrives. His 
attribute, the 
sword, and the 
warrior's lance are 
Symbols of the fire 
that is now inten- 
sified so as to con- 
densethe material 
and "separate the 
pure from the im¬ 
pure and thus to 
renewthe elixir." 

S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 
i6th Century 


The dissolved bodies have now been brought back to the true spirit 


Opus Magnum: Genesis in the retort 


149 














































































Genesis 
in the retort 


The sunis theruler 
of Leo, the sign 
of the zodiac, to 
whom, according 
tothe inscription 
on the base, the 
matter should be 
thrown on the base 
as food.Thegreen 
wings of the mon¬ 
sterin Glock- 
endon's original 
Version Support 
the thesisof Hart¬ 
laub (G.F. Hartlaub, 
"Signa Hermetis", 
in: Zeitschrift des 
Deutschen Vereins 
für Kunstwissen¬ 
schaft, Berlin, 

1937), that this is 
a representation 
of green vitriol, a 
highly corrosive 
sulphurous acid 
code-named "green 
lion". The phase of 
'digestion' is as- 
signed to thesun. 

S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 
i 6 th Century 




[vf 



i JfTi f * kJ 

1 rv«V Ih 




1 rii 

fcmJjü 

1 


Give the wild lion to our living dragon to devour. 


150 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


Genesis 
in the retort 




v-- MS/m] 





The arrival of 
Venus in the sky 
brings sensual 
pleasure; a mag- 
nificent play of 
colours called the 
"peacock'stail" 
appears. Basil 
Valentine said 
that this phenom- 
enon, like a rain- 
bow, indicates 
"that in future the 
matter will come 
from the moist 
tothe dry". 

(Philosophischer 
Hauptschlüssel. 
Leipzig. 1718) 

S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 
i 6 th Century 


Completion is nigh 


Opus Macnum: Genesis in the retort 


151 












































































Genesis 
in the retort 


Mercury arrives 
with two cocks, 
the heralds of the 
dawn. The pure 
virgin, embodying 
the phase of 
whitening (albedo), 
brings a happy 
message. Still sub- 
ject to the moon 
and the night, she 
is already carrying 
the sonof the Sun. 
The material, 
wrote Pernety in 
the Dictionnaire 
mytho-hermetique 
(1787), has now 
reached such a 
degree of solidity 
that no fire can 
destroy it. 

S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 
i 6 th Century 



The son is born, he is bigger than I 


152 


Opus Magnum: Genesis in the retort 




Genesis 
in the retort 


Now death is abolished and our son rules with his redness 


Luna, who governs 
all things moist, 
gives birth to the 
immaculate 
purple-robed 
king: red tincture, 
the universal 
medicine that can 
heal all afflictions. 
"Here the 
worker's efforts 
cease". A state has 
been attained 
which abolishes 
the passage of 
time. The power 
of the planetary 
demons is thus 
broken. 

S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 
i6th Century 



Opus Magnum: Genesis in the retort 


153 


























































































Purification 


154 


Purification 



The alchemist Lambsprinck, with his 
three-towered Athanor (Arabic at*tannur, 
oven), the alchemists' oven, also known as 
"fourneau cosmique" or "Fauler Heinz". It 
had to be constructed in such a way that 
over a number of weeks it provided "a 
continuous although uneven fire". Also 
important was the "little glass window", 
so that the change of colours during the 


process could be observed. For this indi- 
cated the beginning and ending of the in¬ 
dividual phases and thus also informed the 
alchemist about the "governments of 
fire". 

Lambsprinck , De Lapide philosophico, 
Frankfurt, 1625 



De fomace inatom/ca. 



III. left: anthro- 
pomorphic oven 

G. Dorn, Aurora, 
Baste, 1577 

III. right: 

the Athonor as a 

matrix 

Andreas Libavius, 
Alchimi, Frankfurt, 
1606 



Distillation oven 
with connecting 
condensation 
retort after 
J.R. Glauber 
(1604-1670). 
Glauber was the 
"Paracelsus of the 
I 7 th Century", 
famousforhis 
preparation of 
sodium sulphate, 
known as "Glauber 
salt". In it he saw 
the opening of 
the great arcanum, 
the "Elias Artista" 
prophesied by 
Paracelsus. 

J.R. Glauber, 

Von den Dreyen 
an fangen der 
Metalle, 1666 


Opus Macnum: Purification 


Opus Macnum: Purification 


155 

















Purification 


Inscription: "Its 
power iscomplete 
if it has previously 
become earth." 


"It was a threefold large oven/ fitted in- 
side with a number of glasses/ and each 
piece was in its proper place/ in each/ was 
a milling chaos orthe sanctified gift of 
God/ like the whole, wide world/ and in 
the midst of the implements/ one could 
see an Earth/ with beautiful, clear water 
poured over it. From it sprouted forth/ 
many hills and salt-sand cliffs with their 


own fruits/ (...) the waters also crashed 
and roared/ in the middle/ like the big 
sea/ (...) The oven (...)/ was made after 
three perpendicular motions/ (...) a three¬ 
fold/ yet a single oven/(...)." 

Oswald Croll, Chymisch Kleinod, 

Frankfurt, 1647 


The heat-giving 
Athanorwas seen 
asthe male eie- 
ment; the recept- 
ive, pot-bellied 
retort (Latin cucur- 
bit, gourd)asthe 
female elements. 
The "Chymical 
Wedding" occurs 
both outwardly 
and inwardly. 

Cosmic oven, 
Annibal Barlet, 

La theotechnic 
ergocosmique, 
Paris, 1653 


Purification 


"If I have per- 
formed alchemy, 
then it was in the 
only waythat is 
reliable today, 
namely unwit- 
tingly". (Marcel 
Duchamp; quoted 
by Robert Lebel, 
Duchamp - Von 
der Erscheinung 
zur Konzeption, 
Cologne, 1962) 

Marcel Duchamp, 
Chocolate-grinder 
No. 2,1914 


156 


Opus Macnum: Purification 


Opus Macnum: Purification 


157 











158 


Purification 


Opus Macnum: Purification 


A marks the flue 
area, and C the 
fireplace of the 
oven. 


B is divided into an 
upper area where 
distillation occurs; 
the lower half 
holdsthe balnea, 
the water-baths 
for the retorts. It 
also holds an iron 
pan for the cal- 
cination (ashing) 
of the metals. 


D is attached to 
the floor. 


DJ. Faber, Die hell¬ 
scheinende Sonne , 
Nuremberg , 1705 


Purification 



A diagram of the 
cosmos in the form 
of an oven f rom 
Thomas Norton's 
famous alchemistic 
poem "Ordinall of 
Alchemy" (1477). 
contained in Elias 
Ashmole's antho- 
logy Theatrum 
chemicum Britan- 
nicum (London, 
1652). 

The fireplace rep- 
resents the sphere 
of hell, the abyss, 
chaos. Evil is 
waste, ash. 

Thomas Norton , 
Tractatus chymicus , 
Frankfurt , 7676 


Opus Macnum: Purification 


159 






















































Purification 


Purification 




"You must know, my son, that the course 
of nature is transformed, so that you (...) 
can see without great agitation the escap- 
ing spirits (...) Condensed in the air in the 
form of various monstrous creatures or 
people moving hither and thither like 
clouds." (R. Lull, Compendium in Biblio- 
theca chemica curiosa, Vol. I, Geneva, 1702) 

"But the philosophers have described this 
'spirit' and this 'soul' as 'steam' (...), and 
as there is moisture and dryness in man, 
our work is nothing but steam and water." 
(Turba philosophorum, Berlin, 1931) 




III. top: Aurora con- 
surgens, early i6th 
Century 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri - 
darium chymicum , 
Frankfurt , 1624 



King Duenech 
(code name forthe 
green vitriol of the 
philosophers: the 
raw material) is 
seen here in a ves- 
sel called a "bal- 
neum", which is 
being heated in 
the oven. He is 
taking a "sweat- 
bath", which is 
supposed to free 
himfromthe 
"black gall", the 
"Saturnine filth". 
The process lasts 
"until the skin 
breaks and a red 
colour appears". 


M. Maier , 
Atalanta fugiens , 
Oppenheim , 1618 



"Taking a sweat-bath with Saturn" meant 
seeing our passage through the earthly 
vale of tears as a process of purification, at 
the end of which lay the overcoming of the 
raw nature of the "old Adam". 

W. Blake , Death Door, from: Gates of 
Paradise , 1793 


160 


Opus Magnum: Purification 


Opus Magnum: Purification 


161 


























Purification 


"Then, as in a 
furnace, the fire 
draws out of 
matter and divides 
what is best, 
spirit, mind, life 
(...)leadsitup- 
wards, takes the 
topmost by the 
helmet, holdsfast 
to it and then 
flows downwards 
(...), the same as 
God will doonthe 
Day of Judgment; 
with a fire He will 
separate every- 
thing, and divide 
the just fromthe 
godless. The Chris¬ 
tian and the just 
will go to heaven 
and dwell in itfor 
ever; but the god¬ 
less and the 
damned will stay 
inhellasbrothand 
yeast." (Martin 
Luther, Tischreden) 


Theatrum 
chemicum Britan - 
nicum , London , 
1652 



Purification 



W. Blake. Last 
Judgement , 1808 


"When Imagination, Art & Science go, all 
Intellectual Gifts, all the Gifts or the Holy 
Ghost, are look'd upon as of no use & only 
Contention remains to Man, then the Last 
Judgement begins." With these words 
Blake introduced a detailed commentary 
on the painting of the same name, in 
which he gives a precise explanation of the 


countless figures depicted in it. "If the 
Spectator could enter into these Images 
in his Imagination, approaching them on 
the Fiery Chariot of his Contemplative 
Thought (...) then would he arise from his 
Grave, then would he meet the Lord in the 
Air & then he would be happy." (William 
Blake, A Vision ofthe Last Judgement. 1810) 


162 


Opus Macnum: Purification 


Opus Macnum: Purification 


i63 












Fall of Adam 


Fall of Adam 


"The Father indig- 
nant atthe Fall - 
the Saviour, while 
the Evil Angels are 
driven, gently con- 
ducts our first par- 
ents out of Eden 
through a Guard of 
weeping Angels - 
Satan now awakes 
Sin, Death & Hell, 
to celebrate with 
him the birth of 
war and Misery, 
while the lion 
siezesthe Bull, 
Tyger, the Horse, 
the Vulture and 
the Eagle contend 
forthe lamb." 
(Inscription onthe 
reverse of the 
drawing, 1807) 

W. Blake, The Fall 
of Man , 7807 



The celestial revolt of arrogant Lucifer, his subsequent banishment 
to the dark abyss and the fall of Adam, causally linked to it, form 
the starting point of Hermetic philosophy. Forthese two cosmic 
catastrophes produced the 'primateriaT chaos of the elements, 
which forms the starting material for the Work. 

The artist faces the superhuman task of bringing this 'dark lump' 
back to its original paradisal state through complete Sublimation. "It 
is clearthat the Earth as originally made by God was quite complete 
and perfect and also like the nature and virtue of the philosopher's 
stone (...). When man feil, God grew angry and cursed the red earth 
(Adam derives from the Hebrew: Adamah, 'red earth'. This was seen 
as a reference to the red of the lapis), he destroyed its intrinsic pro- 
portions, turned the homogeneity into heterogeneity and changed it 
by taking the elements into an offensive conflation of material: from 
which follow corruption and death." (Julius Sperber, in: Deutsches 
Theatrum Chemicum II, Nuremberg, 1730) 

According to the mystic Jacob Böhme, writing in the early i7th 
Century, it was Lucifer who had lit the fire in nature through inciting 
God's wrath with his arrogance, and "sweet love, which arose in the 
thunderbolt of life (...) became a sting of death; clay became a hard 
knocking of stones, a house of misery". (Böhme, Aurora, 1612) 

The fall of Adam drew with it the fall of man from an original, in¬ 
ner unity into the external world of opposites. According to Cabbal¬ 
istic teachings, taken up by Paracelsus and Böhme, the Ur-Adam was 
androgynous: "he was a man and a woman at the same time (...) quite 
pure in breeding. He could give birth parthenogenically at will (...) 
and he had a body that could pass through trees and stones. 

The noble lapis philosophorum would have been as easy for him to 
find as a building stone." (Böhme, Vom dreyfachen Leben , Amsterdam, 
1682) 

The feminine that was essential in Adam, before it was sepa- 
rated from him in sleep, was his heavenly spouse Sophia (wisdom). 
Blake calls her "Emanation". 

After Adam had "imagined" himself into the outside world in 
the Fall, thus forfeiting his astral light-body for the fleshly "larva". 


164 


Opus Macnum: Fall of Adam 


Opus Macnum: Fall of Adam 


165 





Fall of Adam 


Fall of Adam 


his companion and matrix left him. Since then his existence has been 
shadowy and unreal, a ghost (spectre, the male side). 

The high level of abstraction of Jacob Böhme's ideas and his 
hallucinatory linguistic form inspired several series of illustrations 
by the London-based Nuremberg theosophist Dionysos A. Freher 
(i64g-i728), which Blake ranked with the pictorial discoveries of 
Michelangelo. The following emblems on the fall of Lucifer and the 
fall of Adam are part of the Hieroglyphica Sacra (or Divine Emblems), 
which were published in 1764 as an appendix to the four-volume 
English edition of Böhme's writings by William Law. 


The starting Situa¬ 
tion shows the 
residence of the 
divine trinityin- 
cluding the flames 
of the heavenly 
host. They are 
divided intothe 
hierarchies of 
the archangels 
Michael (M) and 
Uriel (U). The third 
and topmost is 
unoccupied, for 
its previous occu- 
pant, the repres- 
entative of Jesus, 
has committed 
high treason by his 
wilfulness. 



166 


Opus Macnum: Fall of Adam 



Lucifer ascends, 
driven upwards by 
his proud wilful¬ 
ness, but Michael 
and Uriel cast him 
down through the 
fire (4). 

The seven num- 
bers referto the 
seven source 
spirits of God. 
According to 
Böhme they em- 
bodytheseven 
qualities of all 
things and the 
seven powers at 
work in every nat¬ 
ural process. Here 
Freher shows how 
they divide, like a 
cell, into a dark 
sphere of wrath 
and a light sphere 
of love. The fourth 
spirit, fire, is the 
pivot and central 
point ofthis Sepa¬ 
ration. 


167 






Fall of Adam 


Fall of Adam 


The symbol forthe 
work of reunif ica- 
tion O, which is 
known in India as 
the Sri-Yantra, 
meaning the com- 
plete interpenet- 
ration of the 
sexes, was seen 
by the pupils of 
Böhme as a symbol 
of Christ, since he, 
as a second Adam, 
restored Adam's 
primal androgyny. 
"Forthis reason, 
Christ became 
human in the 
woman's part and 
bringsthe man's 
part back into 
the holy matrix." 
(Böhme, Myste¬ 
rium Magnum) 

Thisenabled him 
to travel down* 
wards, to break 
down the portals 
of hell, defeat 
death, rise up and 
thus fulfil the 
prophesy in Micah 
2,13: "Sotheir 
leader breaks out 
before them... and 
the Lord leadsthe 
way." 



168 


Opus Magnum: Fall of Adam 



The "serpent- 
treader" is now 
enthroned in the 
third hierarchy, 
which has re- 
mained unoccu- 
pied since Satan's 
fall. He, himself 
the Moses serpent 
of healing, the 
true tincture, has 
broken the power 
of the cunning 
snake: the gates of 
Paradise are open 
once more, and 
according tothe 
level of their per- 
fection in life, the 
souls encounter 
more or less large 
obstacles on their 
Crossing. 

At the centre, the 
"salnitric fire" 
rises as a flash of 
recognition. It is 
the secret salt-fire 
of the alchemists. 


Opus Magnum: Fall of Adam 


169 






mmmii 


fisisl 


'■GwSb** 


Fall of Adam 


With his rebellion, 
Lucifer had 
brought his new 
dwelling-place 
into such a chaotic 
state that God cre- 
ated the visible 
and tangible world 
from it in sixdays. 
But because of its 
provisional and 
temporal nature, it 
is unattractive to 
Lucifer and he 
leaves it. So, as a 
new governor, 
Adam is created 
as a "compendium 
of the whole uni- 
verse".Theseven 
spirits manifest 
themslves as plan- 
etary forces which 
form the "wheel of 
anguish" of outer 
nature". 


170 


Opus Macnum: Fall of Adam 



















Fall of Adam 


"Here poor Adam 
has actually fallen 
and has lost every- 
thing that was 
good and worth 
striving for. He lies 
asthough dead at 
the outermost 
boundaries of 
the spirit of this 
world." Sophia has 
left him, because 
he faithlessly left 
her in the lurch. 
"He is completely 
in gloom and lies 
more underthe 
earth than ruling 
over it: all the 
stars firetheirin- 
fluences at him." 
This was his state 
afterthe trans- 
gression, before 
he heard the word 
of mercy, "that 
the seed of the 
woman will tread 
the head of the 
serpent". 


172 


Opus Magnum: Fall of Adam 















Chaos 


From the gloomy 
scenarioof the 
creation of the 
world in the Book 
of Urizen: like a 
placenta, the fe- 
male parts are 
shown emerging 
from the head of 
the demiurge. "In 
pangs (...)/ Life in 
cataracts poured 
down his diffs./ 
The void shrunk 
the lymph into 
nerves (...)/ And 
left a round globe 
of blood/Trem- 
bling upon the 
void (...)/ branch- 
ing out into 
roots,/ Fibrous, 
writing upon the 
winds:/ Fibres of 
blood, milk and 
tears (...)" 

W. Blake, The Book 
of Urizen, Lambeth, 
1794 



174 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 




Chaos 



Chaos, formed 
from heat, mois- 
ture, frost, con- 
cealment and 
dryness. 

"Outwardly it 
isthe Jewish 
en-soph, and one 
with the Night 
of Orpheus: 

O Night you black 
wet-nurse of the 
golden stars! From 
this darkness all 
thingsthat are in 
this world have 
come as from its 
spring orwomb." 
(Philalethes, 
pseudonym of 
Thomas Vaughan, 
Magia adamica 
London, 1650) 

"It has no name. 
Nevertheless, it is 
called Hyle, 

Matter, Chaos. 
Possibility or 
Being-able-to- 
develop or 
Underlying and 
otherthings 
(Nikolaus of Cusa, 
Compendium, 
Hamburg edition, 
1970) 

Coenders van 
Helpen, Escalier 
des sages, 1689 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


175 

















Chaos 



After his fall Satan finds himself back in 
the abyss of Chaos with a host of fallen 
angels on a burning lake. After a short 
time, the vast and magnificent palace Pan¬ 
demonium rises on the model of the Greek 
Pantheon. In a great council assembly it is 
here decided that Satan should investi- 


gate the truth about the rumour that a 
new world, with a new kind of being, has 
been created. 

John Martin , The fallen angels enter 
Pandemonium , igth Century 


176 


Opus Magnum: Chaos 


Chaos 



After the fall of 
man. Sin and 
Death, the two 
watchmen atthe 
gates of Hell, fol- 
lowthe tempter 
earthwards and 
pave him "a broad 
and beaten way/ 
Over the dark 
abyss (...)" (John 
Milton, Paradise 
Lost , 1667) 

J. Martin, On the 
edge of Chaos, 
1825 



The cosmos of 'Paradise Lost': 

God's "new world" is suspended as a self- 
enclosed sphere above the realm of dark- 
ness ruled by "Chaos and ancient Night". 
Its nethermost realm, bolted with a great 
gate, adjoins Hell. From there, the wide 
thoroughfare is built across Chaos to the 
new world, as a kind of negative Jacob's 
Ladder. 

Homer B. Sprague, MUton's Cosmography, 
Boston , 188g 


Opus Magnum: Chaos 


177 













Chaos 


Chaos 



ln 1638, in the course of a research expedi- 
tion to Sicily, Pater Kircher was witness to 
a catastrophic volcanic eruption. Travel- 
ling on to Naples, he was then taken to the 
edge of the crater of Vesuvius, to examine 
whether it might not have an Underground 
link with Etna. "There he was confronted 
with a terrible sight. The sinister crater 
was completely lit by fire, and emanated 
an unbearable smell of sulphur and pitch. 
Kircher seemed to have arrived at the 
dwelling-place of the underworld, the res- 
idence of the evil spirits (...)• At dawn, he 


had himself lowered on a rope inside the 
crater, down to a large rock which gave a 
good view of the whole subterranean 
workshop (...). This wonderful natural 
spectacle greatly reinforced his opinion 
of the fiery, fluid state of the interior of 
the earth. Accordingly, he considered all 
volcanoes as merely the safety valves of 
the Underground furnace." (K. Brischar, 

P. Athanasius Kircher, 1877) 

A. Kircher, Mundus subterreaneus, Amster¬ 
dam, 1682 


"I imagine the earth with its circle of 
vapour as resembling a great living crea- 
ture, constantly breathing in and out." 
(Goethe, Conversations with Eckermann, 
1827) With this image, Goethe placed him¬ 
self in the Platonic-Hermetictradition, 
which understood the planets as physical 
creatures with an internal pulse, from the 
venous network of subterranean lava 


canals leading from the central fire, which 
acts as the heart-centre, and a water circu- 
lation, whereby the sea-water reaches the 
great mountains via large subterranean 
tanks, from which it flows back along the 
rivers to the sea. 

A. Kircher, Mundus subterreaneus, Amster¬ 
dam, 1682 


178 


Opus Magnum: Chaos 


Opus Magnum: Chaos 


179 







Chaos 


Here Kircher 
showed the metals 
being cooked in 
the terrestrial 
matrix. Although 
he did not believe 
intransmutation 
by chymical 
means, he 
absorbed some 
Paracelsian ideas, 
such as thetheory 
of the creation of 
all material things 
from a universal 
seed, the "Chaos 
sulphureo-sale- 
mercurialis". 

A. Kircher, Mundus 
subterreaneus, 
Amsterdam, 1682 



Here, the Prima 
Materia, the raw 
state of the lapis 
(pelican) is being 
dug from the earth 
by miners. Be- 
cause of their 
small size, they 
becamethe model 
for Snow White's 
seven dwarfs 
(whose number 
also refers to the 
metals, which 
were held to be 
the "seven coagu- 
lated planetary 
forces"). 

Aurora consurgens, 
early i6th Century 



180 


Opus Magnum: Chaos 


Chaos 



"And this Prima 
Materia is found in 
a mountain which 
contains a huge 
number of created 
things. Within this 
mountain all kinds 
of knowledge can 
be found which 
exist in the world. 
There is no Science 
or knowledge, no 
dream orthought 
(...) that is not con- 
tained therein." 
(Abu'l-Qäsim, 

Kitäb al-'ilm, Ed. 
Holmyard, Paris, 
1923) 

Thetwo miners 
aresoul and mind, 
who, along with 
the mountain as 
the body, form the 
trinity in the Work. 
The moon in the 
water signifies the 
Mercurial "slimy 
fluid" inthesub- 
terranean distilla- 
tion. 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 
i6th Century 


Opus Magnum: Chaos 


181 
















"In one of the old¬ 
est (alchemical) 
texts, the manu- 
script of 'Comarius 
to Cleopatra', the 
metals(are) de- 
scribed as 'corpses' 
which liearound in 
Hades, confined 
and fettered in 
darkness and fog. 
The elixir of life, 
the'blessed wa- 
ters', penetrate 
down tothemand 
rouse them from 
their sleep." (M.-L. 
von Franz, Aurora 
consurgens, in C.C. 
Jung, Mysterium 
conjunctionis, 
Zürich, ig57) 

The Descent of Man 
into the Valley of 
Death, William 
Blake, 1805 




D. Stolcius v. Stolcenberg, Viridarium 
chymicum, Frankfurt, 1624 


182 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 




Chaos 



Sun and moon as 
givers of all super- 
terrestrial and 
subterranean life. 
In the bowels of 
Mother Earth, the 
base metals ma- 
ture towards their 
perfection. "The 
mines or metal- 
pits are also seen 
as the womb: in 
place of itthe 
philosophers use 
a wide glass (...) 
which is also called 
her'egg'." (J.J. 
Becher, Chymis- 
eher Rätseldeuter) 

J.J. Becher, Physica 
subterranea, 1703 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


183 







Chaos 


Chaos 



Heaven is a source and spring of life/ (...) 
for with its fiery rays of influence it strews 
its subtle seed in the air/ that mingles with 
the seed of the air/ and casts itself in the 
water; the water/ which is impregnated by 
the received seeds of both heaven and the 
air/ sinks/ with its own seed/ into the 
earth; the earth/ as a mother/ receives the 


seed of all three/ mixes her own among 
them/ as a stränge grease/ and preserves 
them all. From this there now arises the 
universal balm and Mercurius of the world 
(...)" (J. de Monte Raphaim, 1727) 

German manuscript, i8th Century 







fcif J 



The "philosophers' 
compass" be- 
tweenthe mag* 
netic poles of the 
Work, symbolized 
here as the two 
Masoniccolumns 
of Solomon's 
temple. Joachin: 
male, upper fire 
(esh)and lower air, 
Boaz: feminine, 
upper water 
(Mayim) and lower 
earth. These pro- 
duce the lapis. 

It joinsthe powers 
of the upper (the 
planets) and the 
lower. (The mate- 
rials in the Work: 
tartar, sulphur, sal 
ammoniac, vitriol, 
saltpetre, alum 
and in the centre 
antimony, the sat¬ 
urnine source ma¬ 
terial, said to be 
thegreatest poi- 
son and the 
supreme medi- 
cine. Its symbol is 
the imperial orb.) 

Der Compaß der 
Weisen , Ketima 
Vere, Berlin , 1782 


Opus Magnum: Chaos 


185 


184 


Opus Magnum: Chaos 






Chaos 


The raw chaotic 
source material, 
the legacy of 
Satan's and 
Adam'sfall, is 
shown here as a 
beast with horns 
and a crown, of 
which it is said in 
the Apocalypse: 
"(...) and his 
deadly wound was 
healed: and all the 
world wondered 
afterthe beast 

(Rev., 13,3) 

Its exaltation 
occurs during the 
familiär phases of 
the Work, repre- 
sented by the 
birds in the central 
retort. The upper 
six-sided Star sig- 
nalling perfection 
refers to Mercury, 
which is both be- 
ginning and end. 

S. Michelspacher , 
Cabala, Augsburg, 
1616 



Astronom l 


Philosofhi, 


VlRTVTES. 


Cabala 


älchiimi. 


186 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


Chaos 



An allegory of the 
Chaos of the ele- 
ments and the 
need to harmonize 
them.Thetext 
States that one 
should pay atten¬ 
tion to Temper- 
antia, moderation, 
lestany of the 
elements in the 
Work assume 
predominance. 
Such disharmony 
is expressed here. 

In thethree-foot- 
edness of the crea- 
ture Lennep sees a 
reference to the 
tripod, the stand 
in which the retort 
is exposed to fire. 
(J. van Lennep, 
Alchimie, Brussels, 
1985) 

Aurora consurgens, 
late i4th Century 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


187 























Chaos 


An collection of 
various illustra- 
tions with which 
the "ancient pa- 
gans" supposedly 
imagined Chaos: 
at the bottom the 
dark Demogorgon 
(Chronos), who 
dwells in the cen- 
tre of the earth, 
enclosed by the 
Ouroborosser- 
pent of eternity. 

To the right above 
him, the Egyptian 
Eneph (B). The egg 
in his mouth is 
supposed to sig- 
nify the Creative 
word. Next to him, 
Saturn (C) with the 
sickle. Pan (D) is 
the whole world, 
butalso the 
spagyricfirethat 
divides the "disor- 
dered lump". The 
four children in 
the cave (H) repre- 
sent the four ele- 
ments, L the spirit 
of God which 
floats above the 
darkness, and M 
the Hebrew word 
Bereshith: 'In the 
beginning'. 

De Hooghe, Hiero- 
glyphica oder Denk¬ 
bilder der alten 
Völker , Amsterdam, 
1744 



188 


Opus Macnum: Chaos 


Saturnine 

night 


"I say to you that I am the thing itself, but you must not touch me; 
within me lies the seed of all animals, herbs and ores." (Conversation 
between Saturn anda chemist, Frankfurt, 1706) 

Once Cronus-Saturn was the proud ruler in the eternally youth- 
ful "Golden Age", but since his son Jupiter over- 
threw him and he, according to the lliad was, "put ^ 
underthe earth", he is in a pitiful condition: as 
Father Death, with his sickle in his hand, he now 
embodies the destructive aspect of time, and rep- 
resents the original "gate of darkness" in the 
Work, through which material must pass "in order 
to be renewed in the light of paradise" (Aeyre- 
naeus Philalethes, Ripley Revived, London, 1677). 

The lowest and coarsest level, the Sediment of the jEa/i.? 

world edifice, is assigned to him: stones, earth and 

lead (antimony). Böhme called him "the cold, 

sharp and strict, astringent ruler" (Aurora), who 

created the material skeleton of the world. The influences of his 

planet were held responsible for all kinds of poverty and misery. 

For the Neoplatonists, however, he rose "to become the most 
sublime figure in a philosophically interpreted pantheon" (Kliban- 
sky, Panofsky, Saxl, Saturn und Melancholie, Frankfurt, 1992). Accord¬ 
ing to Plotinus (205-270), he symbolizes the pure spirit, and Agrippa 
von Nettesheim (1486-1535) referred to him as "a great, wise and 
understanding lord, the begetter of silent contemplation" and a 
"keeper and discoverer of mysteries" (De occultaphilosophia, 1510). 

In this way, he rose to become the patron of the alchemists, their 
central role model. 


D. Stolcius v. 
Stolcenberg, 
Viridiarum 
chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 




The inscription on 
the meditational 
image urges satur¬ 
nine self-know- 
ledge. "Visitthe 
interiorof the 
earth and through 
rectification (puri- 
fication through 
repeated distilla- 
tion)you will find 
the hidden stone." 
The number seven 
of the sublima- 
tions- Blake 
speaks of seven 
ovens of the soul- 
was assigned to 
Saturn as the 
seventh planet in 
the cosmological 
System. 


Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


189 




















Saturnine 


"Behold, in Saturn 
a Gold lies en- 
closed (...). Just so 
man lies now, after 
hisfall, in a great, 
formless, bestial, 
dead likeness 
(...) He is likethe 
coarse stone in 
Saturn (...) the 
outer body is a 
stinking cadaver, 
because it still 
lives in poison." 
(Jacob Böhme, De 
signatura rerum) 


"Therein lies the 
most evil poison 
of all(...)and an 
earthly treasure 
and an earthly God 
in whose hands 
lies the spiritual 
and earthly law, 
and who hasthe 
whole World in his 
hand." 


J. Isaak Hollandus, 
Hand der 

Philosophen (1667), 
Vienna edition, 

1746 


Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


Saturnine 

night 



"Take the grey 
wolf, the child of 
Saturn (..) and 
throwhimthe 
body of the King. 
And when he has 
swallowed him, 
build a big fire and 
throwthe Wolf 
into it, sothat he 
bums up, and then 
the King will be 
liberated again." 
(Basil Valentine, 
Twelve Keys) 

M. Maier, 

Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


Forthe purifica- 
tion of gold (king) 
the impurities 
were alloyed with 
antimony, which 
was added tothe 
melt. As antimony 
attracted and 
swallowed impuri¬ 
ties, it was called 
the "philosophers' 
magnet", the 
"wolf of metals", 
the "fiery dragon" 
orthe "bath of the 
king". 

D. Stolcius v. 
Stolcenberg, 
Viridarium 
chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


191 


















Saturnine 

night 




Blake's old creator 
Cod Urizen (from: 
"your reason" 
and "horizon") 
embodies what 
Novalis called the 
"petrifying intelli- 
gence". In the 
form of God the 
Father in the Old 
Testament, he 
created himself 
full of longing for 
"solidity", hard 
material as a 
protective wall 
against eternity, 
which Blake ima- 
gined as a free 
"fluctuation" of 
energies. Urizen is 
the saturnine 
"drierof allforces, 
from which loveli- 
ness is produced", 
and his world is 
"an enclosure of 
life". (J. Böhme, 
Aurora) 

W. Blake , The Book 
of Urizen, Lambeth, 
U94 



192 


Opus Magnum: Saturnine night 


Saturnine 

night 



"The stone that 
Saturn devoured, 
spewed out, 
instead of Jupiter, 
hisson, is placed 
on Mount Helicon 
as a reminderto 
Man." 


According to the Greek myth, Cronus- 
Saturn castrated his father Uranus with a 
sickle and thereafter became the ruler of 
the Golden Age. But as it had been proph- 
esied to him that one of his children would 
dethrone him, he always devoured them 
immediately after their birth. But his wife 
Rhea hid his third son Jupiter from him, 
and in his place gave him a stone which he 
later vomited up after Jupiter had mixed 
salt and mustard with his drink. 


That the stone was chymical, says Maier, 
is clear enough. But it is not, as the begin¬ 
nen have it, in the saturnine lead, but in 
the black phase of putrefaction which 
Stands at the beginning of the Work and is 
governed by Saturn. 

Maier also established a genealogical Con¬ 
nection, for Saturn is the grandfather of 
Apollo, the incarnation of the sun, gold. 

Michael Maier , Atalanta fugiens, Oppen¬ 
heim,, 1618 


Opus Magnum: Saturnine night 


193 












Saturnine 

night 


Herethe metals 
are being "driven 
through Saturn" 
as little children. 
After the process 
of digestion, 
that is, the gloomy 
phasesofthe 
solutio and putre- 
factio, they are 
spewed out, 
brought backto 
life and purified in 
a bath of mercuriai 
distillate produced 
by the heating 
(sword) of the 
Prima Materia 
(Saturn). Nowthey 
are ready for the 
"chymical wed- 
ding", and, with 
Latona (Leto, 
Leda), Jupiter will 
father Apollo, 
gold. 

De Alchimia, 

Leyden , 7 526 



f* Vrr»»r üly 

'*»*'*5v Wiiw 

CÄt, 


MT** 


7 


194 


Opus Magnum: Saturnine night 


Saturnine 

night 



"Towards midnight 
Saturnusturned, 
and a heavy 
vapourcamefrom 
his ears, likewise a 
foulsmelling fog 
was emitted from 
his nose and 
mouth, wherefore 
there was a great 
darkness upon the 
world, and no life 
could be found 
in the world, until 
he opened his 
eyes, from which 
there came forth 
terrible, fiery 
flames mixed with 
stränge, adven- 
turesome colours." 
(Monte-Snyders, 
Metamorphosis 
Palnetarum, 

Vienna edition, 
1774 ) 

Francisco Goya, 
Saturn devouring 
his children, 
1820-1823 


Opus Magnum: Saturnine night 


195 
















Saturnine 

night 


Saturnine 

night 


The saturnine 
"night of lead" in 
which the body 
falls prey to 
dissolution and 
putrefaction, is 
indicated here by 
the gaping mouth. 

"Within lead there 
dwells a shameless 
demon who drives 
mento madness". 
(Olympiodoros, 
5 th Century) 

Coosen van 
Vreeswijk, De 
Goude Leeuw, 
Amsterdam, 7 676 




Spirit and soul 
leave the old body 
which now, as 
indicated by the 
raven, enters the 
stage of blackness 
(nigredo) and 
putrefaction. 

"If they now come 
and are properly 
conjoined with it: 
from these three 
Apollo will be 
born." 

D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 







iß 

{ySJjw 


"My spirit wants 
to be with the soul 
above. So that 
none of the others 
fly, the grave is 
artificially closed 
(...). I am like a 
raven when two 
weeks have 
passed." 

D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


196 


Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


197 

















Saturnine 

night 


"Ovid (...) writes 
of an ancientsage 
who wished to 
rejuvenate himelf. 
He should cause 
himself to be 
divided up and 
boiled until com- 
pletely cooked, 
then the limbs 
would reunite and 
rejuvenate most 
powerfully." 

(S. Trismosin) 

The dove is the 
spirit (the distil- 
late) which 
reunites with the 
bodily remains 
afterthe putrefac- 
tion. "Justasthis 
Saturn is baptized 
with his own water, 
the black raven 
flies off." (B. Cut¬ 
wasser, 1728) 

S. Trismosin, 
Splendorsolis, 
London, 
i6th Century 



198 


Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


Saturnine 

night 



Trismosin teils of 
an angel (a code 
nameforthemer- 
curial components 
of the Materia 
which can be sub- 
limated). which 
helps "a man, 
black as a Moor" 
out of an "unclean 
slime" (the putre- 
fied Sediment in 
the retort), clads 
him in crimson and 
leads him to 
heaven. This is an 
image which 
shows that spirit 
and soul "are 
freed f rom the 
body by being 
gently boiled" and 
later guided back 
to it, whereby 
the body becomes 
stable "in the 
power of the 
spirit". 


S. Trismosin, 
Splendorsolis, 
London, 
i6th Century 


Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


199 



























































Saturnine 

night 


"I turn backwards 
to unholy, un- 
speakable, 
mysterious night. 
Far off lies the 
world -sunk 
within a deep 
grave -(...) In 
dewdrops I would 
sink and mingle 
with ashes." 
(Novalis, Hymnen 
an die Nacht) 

"Looking from 
afar, I saw a great 
cloud that cast a 
black shadow over 
the whole earth, 
absorbing it, 
which covered my 
soul, and because 
the waters had 
reached it (the 
soul) they became 
rotten and corrupt 
from the vision of 
the lowest hell and 
of the shadow of 
death, forthe 
Flood drowned 
me. Then the 
Ethiopians will fall 
down before me, 
and my enemies 
will lick my earth." 
(Aurora 

consurgens, i4th 
Century) 

Sapientia veterum 
philosophorum, 
manuscript, i8th 
Century 


Pi 6 ura 

o 


PVRGATIO 





200 


Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


Saturnine 

night 



The "spectre of 
reason" and the 
"Satanic mills" 
of the Industrial 
Revolution cast 
their destructive 
shadow over Al- 
bion-England, and 
from there across 
the whole world. 
The Creative ener- 
gies in the form of 
theswan lie as if 
paralyzed in the 
"Egyptian waters" 
of materialism. 

Theswan isthe 
symbol of whiten- 
ing (albedo) in the 
Work. If it rises, 
"then life has van- 
quished death, 
then the king is 
resurrected". 

(J. Pernety, 
Dictionnaire mytho- 
hermetique, 1758) 

W. Blake , 

Jerusalem, 
1804-1820 


Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


201 






































Saturnine 

night 


Frontispiece to 
W. Blake's "America: 
A Prophecy ", Lam- 
beth , 1793 



Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


Saturnine 

night 



The Florentine Neoplatonists esteemed 
the "black gall" of the saturnine-melan- 
cholic humour as a state of mind that 
prompted flights of fancy of genius and 
profound self-knowledge. The crucible at 
the left-hand edge of the picture refers 
to a Christological path of purification, 
which, with the help of the trinity of the 
most subtle Spirit (Ikosaeder: quintes- 


Opus Macnum: Saturnine night 


sence), pure body (lamb) and immaculate 
soul (white sphere), leads via the seven- 
stepped ladder of Sublimation to success. 
The magic square above the angel is sup- 
posed to draw down the healing powers 
of Jupiter. 


A. Dürer, Melancholia 1 ,1514 


203 


202 












Saturnine 

night 


Torment 
of the metals 


"The whole 
process of the 
philosophical Work 
is nothing but that 
of dissolving and 
making hard again: 
Namely, dissolving 
the body and mak¬ 
ing hard the 
spirit." (J. d'Espag- 
net, Das Geheime 
Werk, Nuremberg 
Edition, 1730) 

Saturn(e), whose 
name Fulcanelli 
reads as an ana- 
gram of "natures", 
isthefleshly prin- 
ciple, the root of 
the Work. He is 
pregnant with the 
golden fruit, but 
the "craftsman of 
this child is Mer- 
curius". (Jacob 
Böhme, De sig - 
natura rerum) 

J. C. von Vaander- 
beeg, Manuductio 
Hermetico- 
Philosophia, 

Hof, 1739 




In 1357 a myster- 
ious parchment 
feil into the hands 
of the Parisian 
notary Nicolas 
Flamel. It con- 
tained hieroglyph 
figures, whose 
Interpretation by 
a Jewish scholar 
finally enabled 
Flamel to perform 
several successful 
transmutations. 

In Eleazar's Inter¬ 
pretation, the 
dragon is prepared 
from the philo- 
sophers' vitriol 
and represents the 
dry path, while 
Saturn-Antimon 
represents the wet 
path. Finally, by 
achieving links to 
Mercurius, both 
leadto itsfixing. 

Abraham Eleazar, 
Uraltes chymisches 
Werk, Leipzig, 1760 


204 


Opus Magnum: Saturnine night 


Opus Magnum: Torment of the metals 


205 










Torment 
of the metals 



"The metals must be strongly calcinated 
into a pure, clear ash (...) think on't, sinful 
man, that you too with the best of wills 
must also suffer several deaths if you wish 
to be the pure red, golden stone and enter 
the pure Heaven." (Book ofthe Holy Triplic- 
ity , early I5th Century) 

"Calcination is transposition to a kind of 
white ash or earth or white chalk thanks to 
the spirits of our process; it occurs with 
our fire, with the water of our Mercury." 
(Rosarium philosophorum, 1550) 


"No thing can be transformed into another 
nature unless it has previously been made 
into ash, Urne or earth." (Anonymous, 

Nodo Sophico Enodato, 163g) 

"In the ash that remains at the bottom of 
the grave, there lies the king's diadem." 
(Livre de Arthephius, Bibliotheque des 
Philosophes chimiques. Paris, 1741) 

Aurora consurgens, early i6th Century 


206 


Opus Magnum: Torment of the metals 


Torment 
ofthe metals 



"It is necessary to 
knowthat there 
arethree calcina- 
tions: two ofthe 
bodyandoneof 
the spirit. The first 
atthe beginning 
ofthe Work is a 
theft ofthe cold 
moisture (the lunar 
body). In the 
second, the earthi- 
ness (as chalk) is 
removed (the solar 
body). "The third 
is nothing but 
"drawing the 
quintessenceout 
ofthe elemental" 
(the four flowers in 
the retort). 



Aurora consurgens, 
early isth Century 


The fabulous winged being represents 
the initial pulverization, "philosophical 
renewal". Sword and arrow mark the 
destructive use of inner and outer fire. 


Dead matter is brought back to life with 
"Aquapermanens" (Mercurius), and dis- 
tilled up to twelve times. 


Opus Magnum: Torment ofthe metals 


207 


































Torment 
of the metals 


The Book ofthe 
Holy Trinity 
(1415-1419), attrib- 
uted to a wander- 
ing Franciscan 
monk by the name 
of Ulmannus, is 
one ofthe earliest 
and most impor¬ 
tant testimonies 
to a way of think- 
ing that combines 
the representation 
ofthe chymical 
process with 
Christian mysti- 
cism and icono- 
graphy. Numerous 
different levels 
intermingle in 
the text, much of 
which remains 
mysterious even 
today: "Here there 
are many artful 
meanings: natural, 
infinite, super¬ 
natural, divine 
human". The net- 
work of corre- 
spondencesthat 
Ulmannus 
developed with a 
suggestive 
language of 
cyphers shows 
many striking 
similarities to 
Jacob Böhme's 
System. 

Buch der Heiligen 
Dreifaltigkeit , early 
I 5 th Century 











Sv &<-/ 



'Wi iViut ~xpWe w 

f&fö Sen «Jaiijc*» 


afcfcP&CxtycH 'N > vvöTv 

tfCt M? tixjxf 7* 


^ 3 *'* ß U j. 



’ v M CV4t ^ t ' 

CW\i\2U\ ix 'JefU» ?♦» 

5V*»vt WiS 

voft^C* A&c*>t 

fr fr CytMft 

fcvipe&U? 

\fk ** tpttx&t ?*i (vy&.*v> ^v*»»9c»' 

fö* fr* fUn+JL, 

9 vVTC^?^cmÄ *1 (fr* 

(im fex&-fya: 

^cwi jlytcn • 

£v 'vt.vm cf 1 A&0 t>mc# -Vt^ 
jf3ym (c 4 J‘ r. ' 



208 


Opus Macnum: Torment of the metals 


Torment 
ofthe metals 


;r 






I-v v . 

CjjT »« U‘ IvqVif&ttT VH«tKlj<U 4 

^*vr 

vktt> Kxtwi fi»*- tntwfc &tr4*u.‘fi\btW l fi. 

^v. 

pTIM Hi'tfc W'HUt» 


'• t! » > ■ wv» :w«-tu^ 


ft ft cQr»«*fbdi‘ au . fflV. 

* fexnrir hrtiufe 'iWl^ 

fto»' V*»#,«' 

M- fi«i( 2 Ü <£«&, jlk« »4 

k t 

^rtS **««»**•*» **t£, 
: %v<b>. <t»*A .{JP (ö. 


' •«< 


rrmfttt V«»r* 

4)<\vu\ 4i' 

V4& ffrt tidl'iW & -WvOlRrtf*CIt|W 

Utf getit&i 

cm <itu<p 4 u( 6 oCc *» ftfp 

(wuuvC ft'> t* 

fc v*t*,£v StMt^V-U 

f <K'M 14 - *»rtv. •: -•• n«‘ -,$f t 

^ ,*• f.:Vn, (<& 4 rk 1- •? **fcf,'A >'• ? ? -f 1 • 


In the representa¬ 
tion ofthe scene 
ofthe Fall showing 
Adam (silver) and 
Eve (gold), the 
author reminds 
us that it was un- 
chaste behaviour 
that put the met¬ 
als into a state 
of impurity. The 
lance signifies 
purification 
through fire. The 
gallows show 
the martyrdom 
of iron (Mars), 
copper (Venus) is 
beheaded,the 
breaking on the 
wheel is saturnine 
(Böhme's "wheel 
of anguish"!). The 
Jupiterine pewter 
pot contains satur¬ 
nine "gall-drink", 
and the Mercurial 
cubes referto 
theplay ofthesol- 
diers beneath the 
cross. 

Buch der Heiligen 
Dreifaltigkeit, early 
I 5 th Century 


Opus Macnum: Torment of the metals 


209 














Torment 
of the metals 


"Take his soul and 
return it to him, 
forthe corruption 
and destruction of 
theonething is 
the birth of the 
other. This means: 
rob him of the de- 
structive moisture 
and augment it 
with his natural 
moisture, which 
will be his comple- 
tion and his life." 
(Aurora consurgens, 
after a i6th-cen- 
tury translation) 

Aurora consurgens, 
early i6h Century 







210 


Opus Magnum: Torment of the metals 


Torment 
of the metals 





The Greek al- 
chemist Zosimo 
(4th Century) teils 
of a transforma- 
tion of the body 
into pure spirits 
by ritual dismem- 
berment. Here, 
he teils of the 
chopped-up limbs, 
which are "as 
white as salt". 

(The philosophers 
say that salt in the 
calcinated ashes is 
the key to suc- 
cess.)But thehead 
is golden. The 
cruel slayer with 
the black face 
holds in his right 
hand the double- 
edged sword of 
thetwo fires "and 
a piece of paper 
in his left". On it 
was written: I have 
killed you so that 
you may have 
overflowing life 
(...). But your head 
I will hide, that 
the world shall not 
see you 

S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 
i6th Century 


Opus Magnum: Torment of the metals 


211 



























































Torment 
of the metals 


A parable on the 
"preparation of 
the destructive 
moistures" (putre- 
faction, Saturn), 
and "renewal with 
the essential mois- 
ture", Mercurial 
water: "The an- 
cients saw(...) a 
mistdrawoverthe 
earth and water it 
(Genesis 2, 6), and 
the impetuosities 
of the sea(...)and 
of the earth, which 
grew rotten and 
stinking in the 
darkness, and they 
sawthe king of 
Earth sinking and 
heard him cry: 
Whoever saves me 
will (...)govern in 
my clarity on my 
royal throne (...) 
The next day they 
saw what seemed 
to be a morning 
star arise overthe 
king and the light 
of day (...) He was 
crowned with 
three precious 
crowns of iron, sil- 
ver and gold (...)". 

S. Trismosin, 
Splendorsolis, 
i6th Century 



Igisf 

3 

l^vT 

Bl i 
fjPf 




212 


Opus Macnum: Torment of the metals 


Torment 
of the metals 




King Urizen sinks 
intothe "sul- 
phureous fluid (of) 
his fantasies", 
from which he 
created the "old 
body", the realm 
of matter as the 
"upper water 
of nature". (Jacob 
Böhme) 

W. Blake, The Book 
of Urizen, Lambeth, 
1794 


"I work upwards into the future" 


Opus Macnum: Torment of the metals 


213 












































Torment 
of the metals 


lf one fetchesthe 
king from the red 
sea (Mercurial 
water), says Maier, 
one should be 
careful that he 
does not lose his 
crown, for with its 
stones one could 
heal illnesses. 
Afterwards one 
should place him 
in a steam-bath, so 
that he loses the 
water that he has 
swallowed, and 
then marry him, so 
that he produces a 
royal son. 


M. Maier, 
Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


The king in the sea swims and cries with a 
loud voice: Whoever catches and rescues 
me, to him will I give a great reward." 


HELP! HELP! 


W. Blake, The Gates 
of Paradise, 1793 


Opus Macnum: Torment of the metals 



The married couple, the siblings Isis and 
Osiris, represent the relationship of Luna- 
Mercurius and Sol-Sulphur, which consti- 
tutes the lapis. Here Typhon-Seth is given 
the saturnine role of the Separator. 

"Know, my son, that this our stone (...) is 
composed of four elements. It must be di- 
vided and its limbs taken apart (...) and 
then transformed into the nature that is 
within it." (Rosarium philosophorum) 


The absence of the king's male member 
after he is reassembled is a reference to 
the idea that the matter is now the unified 
material which the philosophers call 
"rebis" or "hermaphrodite". 

M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 
1618 


Torment 
of the metals 


"Osiris is under- 
handedly mur- 
dered by Typhon 
[Seth), who after¬ 
wards scatters his 
limbs, but Isis 
gathersthem up 
and puts them 
togetherto make 
a body. But the 
male member has 
broken off, lost 
in the water. For 
sulphur perishes, 
thus is sulphur 
born." 


Opus Macnum: Torment of the metals 






















Resurrection 


The grave (oven)is 
prepared. 


Janus Lacinius, 
Pretiosa Margarita, 
Venice, 1546; 
Leipzig edition, 

1714 


Opus Magnum: Resurrection 


r - mm 

f ,„!Ml 

1 wMa* 

Wf'mWi 

SV, 































Resurrection 


Inthe grave 
"comes putrefac- 
tion in ashes or a 
very warm bath". 
(QUA: Aqua.) 


After cooling 
down, the result 
of putrefaction 
can be seen. (LAS : 
anagram of Sal.) 


The bones are 
taken out 


J. Lacinius, 
Pretiosa Margarita 
Leipzig , 7774 



Resurrection 


The dissolved mat¬ 
ter is cooked until 
black, sprinkled 
with the water of 
life and once again 
cooked, until it is 
white. An angel 
comes and throws 
the bones (salt) 
onto the white 
earth, which is 
then cooked 
again. 


The servants ask 
God forthe return 
of the king. 


Gradually the an- 
gels bring the rest 
of the bones, until 
the earth is com- 
pletely fixed and 
red like a ruby. 

(Ro from Lat. 'ros': 
dew, sweat; Lat. 
'rosa', the rose, 
a code name for 


J. Lacinius, 

Pretiosa Margarita , 
Leipzig , 7774 


Opus Magnum: Resurrection 



































Resurrection 


The king is now 
entirely spiritual 



and has the power 
to turn all the ser- 
vants into kings. 
The son is missing. 
He has conjoined 
with the father. 

In this phase of 
"projectio" (trans- 
ference), the dusty 
lapis is added as 
an enzymetothe 
base metals. 


J. Lacinius, 

Pretiosa Margarita i, 
Leipzig , 7774 



The alchemists "also possessed a second 
type of alcohol (...) the 'secret spirits of 
wine of the adepts', which, because of 
certain properties that it shares with alco¬ 
hol, to mask them, is also spoken of as 
'spirits of wine'. Its Chemical formula is 
well known, but the iatro-chemists have 
by degrees and with many cohibations and 
processes of digestion intensified this and 


transformed this product, and thus, 
finally, by sharpening it with acids and 
mineral salts, preserved its menstrua 
mineralis, by means of which they were 
able not only to dissolve the metals but 
also to make them volatile (...)". (Alexan 
der von Bernus, Alchemie und Heilkunst, 
Nuremberg edition, ig6g) 


The depiction of the Great Work through regicide, decay and resur¬ 
rection lives on in the higher degrees of Freemasonry. In its cere- 
monies, the murder of the legendary architect of Solomon's temple, 
Hiram Abif, is ritually carried out. 

Hiram was murdered with the three tools of Masonry - the mea- 
sure, the set-square and the hammer - by three apprentices who 
wanted to force the master-word from him. For later recognition, the 
murderers placed an acacia branch on the spot where they buried 
him. As the old master-word was now lost (it was supposedly 
"Jehova: the central fire"), the new master-word became "Mack- 
benach" or "Mach-benak", which was exclaimed by a man on discov- 
ering Hiram's decayed corpse. 

This new master-word has been interpreted as: "The flesh is 
coming away from the bones", "He lives in the Son", "Son of decay" 
"A Mason has been killed" or "Mach: decay! Benach: apparently!" 

The meaning of the ceremony lies in the unification of each new 
master with Hiram and in the continuation of the endless chain of 
death and rebirth. 

Joyce's cryptically infinite work is about the death and resurrec¬ 
tion of a mason of the other kind. His name is Tim Finnegan, also 
known as "Finnagain (...) of the Stuttering Hand", a "freemen's mau- 
rer" who dies when he falls drunk from the scaffolding and is put in 
his coffin. The guests at his cheerful wake (funferal) experience his 
resurrection when the loud uncorking of a whisky bottle awakens 
new life in him. The whisky is the elixir, the "wise key", the key to the 
Work: the lost master-word of Hiram Abif and the lost member of 
Osiris. Finding this member means bringing togetherthe beginning 
and end of the 'end-negating' (fin negans) book, completing the 
Ouroboros. The member is a syllable, and it is found among the 
bones that the angels bring (cf. p. 634-635). 


220 


Opus Magnum: Resurrection 


Resurrection 


Opus Magnum: Resurrection 


221 



Resurrection 


The lodge atthe 
admission of a 
master: 

A position ofthe 
Grand Masterin 
the East 

B Altar with Bible 
and hammer 

G The old master- 
word on the coffin 

K Tearsofgrief 
over Hiram's death 

LM Theburial 
mound with the 
acacia branch 

O Thepositions 
ofthe leading offi- 
cials ofthe lodge. 

X The new recruit 
in the West 

This form of cere- 
monial representa- 
tion, calied the 
"carpet" (tapis), 
was developed 
from symbolic 
drawings made 
with chalk and 
charcoal on the 
floor ofthe inns, 
wherethe oldest 
Masonic lodges 
met. 

Lordre des Francs- 
Magonstrahi 
Amsterdam, 1745 



222 


Opus Macnum: Resurrection 


Resurrection 



ln the languageof 
the Gold- and 
Rosicrucians, this 
type of depiction 
was meant to "in- 
dicatethe corrupt 
fermentation, in 
the general mysti- 
cal sense, through 
which the smallest 
parts ofthe body 
are dissolved, and 
thefire locked 
withinitis liber- 
ated". ( Signat- 
stern, Stuttgart, 
1866) 

The "mosaic floor” 
of black and white 
tiles refers tothe 
bipolar nature of 
earthly existence: 
thechimera of 
light and darkness, 
agens and patiens, 
form and matter. 

It leadsto the holi- 
est of holies con- 
tainingthe eternal 
spirit-fire of Jeho- 
vah, which no mor- 
tal can see. 

Work-table for the 
3rd degree 
(master), England, 
c. 1780 


Opus Macnum: Resurrection 


223 











Resurrection 


Our Chymical Sci¬ 
ence, taken as a 
whole, is like a 
farmer working 
the land, prepar- 
ing bis field and 
scattering seed 
in it." 

Both, alchemist 
and farmer, must 
precisely obey the 
laws of the sea- 
sons if they are to 
achieve good 
yields. 

M. Maier, 

Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 



Alchemy is "celes- 
tial agriculture". 
Here Gold (Sol) 
and Silver(Luna) 
are added to mat¬ 
ter as fermenting 
agents, to increase 
it. "If you throw 
the two pieces on 
our land: this liv- 
ing flame will give 
off its forces." 

D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 



224 


Opus Macnum: Resurrection 


Resurrection 



The "fermenta- 
tion" of the 
metals: 

"How foolish! The 
seed you sow does 
not come to life 
unless it has first 
died (...). What is 
sown in the earth 
as a perishable 
thing is raised im- 
perishable (...). 
Sown as an animal 
body, it is raised 
as a spiritual 
body." (1 Corin- 
thiansis, 36-44) 

D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 



The cross and rect- 
angle of thetomb 
form the glyphs of 
the Sal Tartari 
"whose spirit (...) 
causes all metals 
to evaporate (...)" 
(Basil Valentine). 
The crosses in the 
background ^ re- 
ferto the fermen- 
tation of mercury 
with its own sul- 
phur. Then the 
goal ©, "our 
gold", is achieved. 

D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


Opus Macnum: Resurrection 


225 




























Resurrection 


Sol and Luna still 
liesidebysideas 
"two different 
things" inthe 
glass coffin of the 
retort (Snow 
White!). After 
putrefaction they 
will be resurrected 
as "one thing from 
two" (Rebis). 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri - 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt , 1624 


Without death by 
burning (candle) 
no resurrection 
can occur, for in 
ashes lies the "salt 
of glory" (cross 
and cube: salt of 
tartar), which 
brings newlife 
(blossoming tree- 
trunk). The pea- 
cock on the church 
tower Signals the 
next, brightly 
coloured phase. 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 7 624 


Opus Macnum: Resurrection 



Resurrection 


The "dark material 
fire" of the black 
sun divides spirit 
and soul from the 
putrefied body. 
"You should know 
that the head of 
art isthe raven. 

If someone cuts 
off its head, it 
loses its blackness 
and will attract 
the wisest colour 
of all. 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


"Decay is a won- 
derful smith", who 
transfers one ele- 
ment to the other: 
"It makes such 
changes without 
respite, until 
heaven and earth 
melt together into 
a glassy clump". 

(A. Kirchweger, 
Aurea Catena, 
Homeri, 1781) 


D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


Opus Macnum: Resurrection 



















Resurrection 


"0 unhappyman! 
Condemned to 
drawthy breath in 
this gruesome 
body of Death." 

Pia Desideria, 
Hermann Hugo, 
Antwerp, 7 659 


Resurrection 


7 



Ckap: 

/•n^täutd dt. 

2 Ani tf the scu&nß ‘yulpkure 7Ju dark. 

- OUS yf*' 

Pf rturbed ItnmertaL mac raguig 


mrnt .4 Aaa La firnted nets * %fS 


J Los smttrn Witii cstZ'Ä-^Aai Utn* thi. mis ■. IjJmO : 

^ -> \S ffe walrAd ut s/uiädnnß tau' l 

. btsmcl CPcry 


3: In. whu'luHJhds A pitch 6c nitre 
Round the Jtincas Lun Ls at 


"In stony sleep" 
Urizen has sep- 
arated from Etern- 
ity and will be 
hatched asthe 
body of the world: 
"Ages on ages 
rolled over him! 

(...) In a horrible 
dreamful slumber, 

/ Likethe linked 
infernal chain, / A 
vast spine writhed 
in torment / upon 
the winds, shoot- 
ing pained / Ribs, 
like a bending 
cavern, / And 
bones of solidness 
froze / Over all his 
nerves ofjoy (...)." 
(W. Blake) 

"Just as in man the 
skull is a cover and 
encloser of the 
brain (...), satur¬ 
nine force is also 
a cover, drier and 
Container of all 
fleshliness and 
comprehensibil- 
ity."(J. Böhme, 
Aurora) 

W. Blake , The Book 
of Urizen, Lambeth, 
1794 


Opus Macnum: Resurrection 


229 































Aurora 


Blake integrated 
the Paracelsian 
concept of the 
"inner volcano" 
(Archeus) into the 
figure of Los, the 
prophet of the 
imagination, 
whom he referred 
to as the "fabrica- 
torand workman 
of all things". He is 
the mysteriousfire 
which, in inner 
natu re, transforms 
the divine spirit 
into matter. 

The Paracelsian 
Sendivogius re¬ 
ferred to him as 
"the central sun, 
the heart of the 
world" (Los, ana- 
gram of sol, or 
soul). Urizen's sa- 
tanic Separation 
from eternity 
drags him into the 
abyss to which he 
must hencefor- 
ward impart form 
and shape. 

W. Blake, The Book 
of Urizen , Lambeth, 
U 94 



230 


Opus Magnum: Aurora 




Aurora 





Urizen, master of 
the material sun, 
once possessed 
eternal youth, and 
embodied "trust 
and certainty" be- 
fore his Separation 
from Eternity. He 
then became the 
incarnation of de- 
structive doubt 
and calculating 
reason. 

However stark the 
oppositions of 
Urizen and Los 
"in the world of 
procreation" - in 
Eternity they were 
identical twins. 
"(...) in anguish Ur¬ 
izen was rent from 
his (Los') side" 

W. Blake , The Book 
of Urizen , Lambeth , 
7794 


Opus Magnum: Aurora 


231 













Aurora 



Saturn as ruler of the two signs of the zo- 
diac, Aquarius and Capricorn. His children 
included the needy and the poor, peasants 
bound to the soil, lonely hermits, prison- 
ers and murderers, but also the represen- 
tatives of geometrical and astronomical 
scholarship. "The ancient pagans saw Sat¬ 
urn not only as time, but also as the Prima 


Materia of all metal things, under whose 
natural-alchymistic rule lay thetruly 
golden age." (Heinrich Khunrath, Vom 
hylealischen Chaos , Frankfurt edition, 

1708) 

De Sphaera, Italian manuscript, isth Century 


232 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 




Aurora 



King sun rules the zodiac sign of Leo. 

Play and competition express the proud 
physicality of his children. While Saturn 
represents the immature, poisonous initial 
stage of matter, Sol signifies its final ma- 
turity after it has passed through all seven 
spheres. 


For Julius Sperber the circumference (Sat¬ 
urn as the outermost planet) is nothing but 
the unfolded centre (Sol) and vice versa. 

De Sphaera , Italian manuscript , isth Century 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


233 












































Aurora 


The black sun is 
the outer sun, 
whose "dark, con- 
suming fire" 
brings everything 
to decay. After 
Adam'sfall, 
tainted by Original 
Sin, man is made 
"from the black 
sun's fire", accord- 
ing tothe Book of 
the Holy Trinity. In 
Arabic alchemy, 
"the blackness 
ortheshadow of 
the sun" is also a 
code name forthe 
impurities of com¬ 
mon gold, which 
must be washed 
away. 

S. Trismosin, 
Splendorsolis, 
London, 
i6th Century 



234 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


Aurora 







The inner sun as an 
image of the lapis, 
the red-winged 
lion: "Hetears 
man from this vale 
of tears and re- 
leases him, that is: 
from the despon- 
dency of poverty, 
of illness, and lifts 
him with his wings 
with praise and 
honourfrom the 
stinking Egyptian 
waters, which are 
the daily thoughts 
of mortal man 
(Nicolas 

Flamel, Chymische 
Wercke, Hamburg 
edition, 1681) 

S. Trismosin, 
Splendorsolis, 
London, 
i6th Century 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


235 




















































































Aurora 


The first part of the 'Aurora consurgens' (the rising dawn) is a hymn 
to wisdom (Sophia), interspersed with chymically interpreted pas- 
sages from the Song of Solomon. 

The upper illustration depicts Sophia as Aurora, as the "golden 
hour" (aurea hora), signifying the end of the night of unknowing and 
destructive material corruption. Here she suckles the philosophers 
with her "virgin milk", the Mercurial water. With the royal crown "of 
the rays of twelve, shining stars" on her head, and the final redden- 
ing in her face, she embodies the " solar celestial Sophia", while the 
black figure below represents the lunar Sophia, who has descended 
into matter and become caught in it. In the text she is compared with 
the Queen of Sheba, who says in the Song of Solomon that she is as 
black as the daughters of Cedar: "Look not upon me, because I am 
black, because the sun has looked upon me". Now she calls for help 
from the depths of matter: "The black depths have covered my 
face and the earth is corrupt and sullied in my works, and darkness 
has fallen upon it, as I am sunk in the mire of the depths and my 
substance has not been opened". (In: C.G. Jung, Mysterium conjunc- 
tionis, Zürich, 1957) 

According to Fulcanelli, "in hermetic symbolism the black 
Madonnas represent the virgin earth, which the artist must choose as 
the subject of his work. It is the Prima Materia in its mineral state, 
and it comes from the ore-bearing seams buried deep beneath the 
masses of stone." (Fulcanelli, Le Mystere des Cathedrales , Paris, 1964) 

Sophia (cf. p. 500 ff.) in Gnosticism and in the Cabala bears both 
the features of a virgin bride and those of the womb, the matermate- 
riae. The seed that falls into it, according to the Aurora consurgens, 
produces a threefold fruit. And this fruit in her body is the tripartite 
Caduceus, the Christ-Mercury, the healing serpent, the curing water 
that flows into Hades to awaken the dead bodies of the metals and 
free his mother-bride. This is the beginning stage of the "whiten- 
ing": her clothes are now "purer than the snow", and to her husband 
she will gives wings like those of a dove, to fly away with him in the 
sky. 


238 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


Aurora 





"(...) Thus the 
Dawn atthe peak 
of reddening is the 
end of all darkness 
andthebanish- 
ment of night, that 
wintry time that 
one will knock 
against if one wan- 
ders into it and 
does nottake 
care." 



"Turn to me with 
yourwhole heart 
and do not despise 
me because I am 
black and dark, 
for the sun has 
burned me so, and 
the black depths 
have covered my 
face." 

Here, Sophia is 
Standing on the 
full moon, whose 
silver pigment is 
oxydized over 
time. 

Aurora consurgens , 
late i4th Century 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


239 























Aurora 


The dark back- 
ground isthe in¬ 
nermost hidden 
aspect of God. In a 
freetranslation of 
the Cabalistic En- 
So/(the infinite), 
Böhme referred 
to him asthe "un- 
ground". In the 
virgin mirrorof 
wisdom, the divine 
will recognizes it- 
self and "imagines 
from the unground 
in itself (...) and 
impregnates itself 
with imagination 
from wisdom (...) 
as a mother with- 
out childbirth" 

(cf. p. 478). 

"Around the red 
dawn, day separ¬ 
ates from night/ 
and each is recog- 
nized in his nature 
and strength: for 
without Oppo¬ 
sition nothing is 
revealed/ no im- 
age appears in the 
clearglass/so no 
page is darkened 
(...)". (G. Gichtei) 

J. Böhme, Theo- 
sophical Works, 
Amsterdam, 1682 



240 


Opus Magnum: Aurora 


Aurora 







Runge planned the 
painting as part of 
a cycle on the four 
seasons asthe 
"four dimensions 
of the created 
spirit". Morning 
represents "the 
boundless enlight- 
enment of the uni- 
verse", night (the 
black sun onthe 
lower edge 
of the painting) 
"the boundless 
destruction of 
existence in the 
origin of the uni- 
verse". Light is 
symbolized in the 
lily, and the three 
groups of children 
"relate to the trin- 
ity". 

Lily and dawn sym- 
bolize the rise of 
the age of the 
Holy Spirit. "A lily 
blossoms, over 
mountain and 
vale, at all ends of 
the earth."(J. 
Böhme, De sig- 
natura rerum) 

Ph. 0 . Runge, Der 
kleine Morgen, 
Hamburg, 1808 


Opus Magnum: Aurora 


241 






































Aurora 


Dawn as a sign of a 
Protestant "spir¬ 
itual reformation 
of the whole 
world", which the 
Rosicrucians urged 
in their'Confessio 
Fraternitatis' in 
1605. "After the 
world has almost 
reached its end", 
one should 
"joyfully approach 
the new rising 
sun with open 

heart (...)" 

Ph. 0 . Runge , 1801 


Vivat 1801. 



The divine un- 
ground as 'Etern- 
ity's eye of won- 
der' reveals itself 
inthemirrorof 
wisdom (Sophia). 
"It is like an eye 
that sees and yet 
guides nothing in 
seeing that it may 
see, forthe seeing 
is without being 
(...) Its seeing isin 
itself." (J. Böhme) 

i8th-century 
edition of Böhme 



242 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


Aurora 



"Here, two eyes 
have once more 
become one (...). 
By its changing 
gazeallthingsare 
nourished (...). If 
thiseye closed for 
a moment, noth¬ 
ing could exist any 
more. Forthis 
reasonit is called 
opened eye, upper 
eye, sacred eye, 
surveying eye, an 
eye that sleeps not 
nor slumbers, an 
eye that is the 
guard of all things, 
the continuous 
existence of all 
things." (Zohar, 
Cologne edition, 
1982) 

"The eye in which 
I see God is the 
same eye in which 
God sees me; my 
eye and God's eye, 
that is one eye and 
one seeing and one 
recognizing and 
one loving." 
(Meister Eckhart, 
Deutsche Predigten 
und Traktate, 
Munich edition, 
1963) 

Little flower garden 
ofthe Seraphim , 
from the works 
of Böhme, i8th 
Century 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


243 









Aurora 


Aurora 


"The soul is an eye 
of fire, or a mirror 
of fire, wherein 
the Godhead has 
revealed itself (...). 
It is a hungry fire, 
and must have be- 
ing, otherwise it 
becomes a dark 
and hungry val- 
ley." The darkness 
is hidden atthe 
centre of light, 
and anyone who 
wishes arrogantly 
to go beyond God, 
like Lucifer, is left 
with only dark¬ 
ness. Thus it is 
best for the soulto 
länger in a "calm" 
middle region 
between spiritual 
heights and deep 
humility. 

J. Böhme, 
Theosophische 
Wercke, Amster¬ 
dam, 1682 




"Thus we under- 
stand the soul; 
that it is an 
awakened life 
from God's eye; its 
primal state is in 
fire, and fire is its 
life: but if it does 
not go from the 
fire with its will 
and imagination 
intothe light, as 
if through grim 
death into the 
other Principium, 
intothe Love-Fire, 
it remains in its 
own original fire, 
and has nothing 
(...) but bitter fury, 
a desire in the 
fire, a consuming 
and a hunger; 
and yet an eternal 
quest which is 
eternal fear." 

J. Böhme, 
Theosophische 
Wercke, Amster¬ 
dam, 1682 


244 


Opus Magnum: Aurora 


Opus Magnum: Aurora 


245 


























Aurora 


Aurora 


"This world Stands 
in the confused 
lifeof time be- 
tween light and 
darkness as an ef- 
fective reflection 
of both." It isthe 
third principle, 
andits form "has 
been in God's 
nature for ever, 
butinvisibleand 
immaterial". It was 
uttered by the 
spirit of God into 
the matrix of his 
wisdom (Sophia), 
where it can now 
be discerned in 
the light of God as 
his creation. And 
as this world is 
threefold and was 
enfolded in the di* 
vine trinity, "the 
human spirit (...) 
also has all three 
principia, asThe 
Realm of God, 
the Realm of Hell 
and this Realm of 
the World within 
itself". 

J. Böhme, 
Dreyfaches Leben, 
Amsterdam, 1682 




The visible world 
of the elements, 
the third principle, 
is a monstrous 
product of the 
world of darkness 
as the manifesta* 
tion of the raging 
God-the-Father 
and the world of 
light as the prin¬ 
ciple of the Son 
"who is his 
Father's Heart and 
Love". 

We must imagine 
these two worlds 
asthe interaction 
of two wheels, 
each of them con- 
sisting of the three 
qualities of salt, 
sulphur and mer- 
cury. These are 
expressed in the 
dark root principle 
as the astringent, 
the bitter and 
the fire of fear. 
Friction produces 
a flash of fire from 
them, the "fire- 
crack". When it 
comes into its 
mother, "astrin- 
gency", it be- 
comesthe source 
of the second 
principle of light, 
"impenetrable 
love". 

J. Böhme, 

Drey Principia, 
Amsterdam, 1682 


246 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


Opus Macnum: Aurora 


247 





























>lttö einem Saf 


Darkness 


"All things origin- 
ated from the 
fire*root as a 
twofold birth" in 
light (Wohl = 
good) and dark¬ 
ness (Wehe = ill). 


"In this world, love 
and angerare in- 
side one another, 
in all creatures, 
and man has both 
centres within 
himself." 


"Each man is free 
and is like his own 
God, inthis life he 
may turn himself 
into anger or into 
light." 


J. Böhme , 
Theosophische 
Wercke, Amster¬ 
dam, 1682 


Opus Magnum: Light & Darkness 



Light & 
Darkness 


At the intersection 
of light and the 
world of darkness, 
the human and the 
divineeye meet 
and merge in a 
visionary "look- 
ing-through", 
which emerges 
"asaflash in the 
centre". 


lACOB lOHMEIt 

# Teutonici Philofophi^ ^ 

3\lle Theofophifche Ärfjriffteit. 


Thetrumpet and 
the lily, the two 
ends of the 
pointer, herald the 
coming of the end 
of the world and 
the beginning of 
theageofthe 
Holy Ghost. The 
seven circles are 
thequalities of 
nature, the days of 
the Creation and 
the spirits of God. 
The inner alphabet 
signifies "the 
revealed natural 
language", which 
names all things 
"sensually", i.e., 
directly, according 
to their innermost 
quality. It was lost 
through Adam's 
Fall from number 
1, the divine unity. 


J. Böhme, 
Theosophische 
Wercke , 

Amsterdam , 1682 


efrrudft ju Amfterdam im 


Opus Magnum: Light & Darkness 











Light & 
Darkness 



<*orr 


He i'ßiUfjn.c&jtfy 




On the left, the world of darkness, "when 
the eye of wonder enters nature", on the 
right, the world of light, "when the Divine 
Mystery has passed through the fire and 
dwells in majestic light." The cruciform 
reflective axes mark the sphere of the 
magic fire "from which both the angels 
and the soul of man originate". 

"Everything that wishes to have divine 
light must go through the dying, magic 
fire and exist in it, just as the heart on the 
cross must exist in the fire of God." If the 
soul does not pass the threshold of the 
cross, it remains in the realm of the dark 
fire of fear. 

J. Böhme, Wunderauge der Ewigkeit 



The fourth of the seven properties is "the 
fire-crack or salnitric ground". It corres- 
ponds to the sun, which is divided into a 
dark exterior and a bright interior. Here, 
the unground of eternal freedom opens 
into the world of darkness "and breaks the 
strong, attractive power of darkness". 
(Freher) 

D.A. Freher , in: Works ofJ. Behmen, Law 
Edition, 1764 


Opus Magnum: Light & Darkness 


251 






Light & 
Darkness 



The two angels in the apocaiyptic setting 
symbolize the hermetic fundamental 
forces of dissolution (solve: mercury) and 
binding (coagula: sulphur). Böhme re- 
ferred to them as "the yes and no in all 
things". 

In the exaggerated idealization of Böhme 
as a "Philosophus Teutonicus", or the 
"Hans Sachs of German philosophy", 
bestowed upon him because of his great 
influence on Romanticism and the philo¬ 


sophy of German idealism, there was a 
tendency to ignore his deep affinity to 
the ideas of the Jewish Cabala, which was 
"noted by his earliest adversaries but, 
stränge to say, has been forgotten by 
more recent writers". (Gershom Scholem, 
On the Kabbalah and its Symbols , New York, 
1967) 

Engraving , 1675 , in: Jacob Böhme und 
Görlitz , Ein Bildwerk, Görlitz , 1924 


In 1600, at the age of twenty-five, according to the testimony of his 
pupil and biographer Abraham von Frankenberg, the shoemaker 
Jacob Böhme was "seized by the divine light (...) and at the sudden 
sight of a pewter vessel (the sweet, jovial gleam) led to the inner¬ 
most ground or centre of secret nature". 

By Böhme's own account, he had broken through the portals of 
Hell for the duration of a quarter of an hour. "I recognized and saw in 
myself all three worlds (...) and recognized the whole of Being in Evil 
and Good, the way one originates in the other (...). I saw through as 
into a chaos with everything in it, but I could not undo it." He recog¬ 
nized "that all things consist of Yes and No", and these "are not two 
things side by side, but only one thing (...). Were it not for these two, 
which are in constant conflict, all things would be Nothing, and 
would stand still and motionless." 

Only in the constant conflict of the seven properties of nature, 
in the turning of the "wheel of anguish", is nature revealed. "Böhme 
was the first to understand cosmic life as a passionate struggle, a 
movement, a process, an eternal genesis. It was only such a direct 
knowledge of cosmic life that made 'Faust' possible, made Darwin 
possible, Marx, Nietzsche." (Nicolas Berclyaev, Underground and 
Freedom , ig58). 

Like his precursor, the Lutheran minister Valentin Weigel 
(1533-1588), Böhme is in a tradition of "visionary optics", leading 
from Augustine and Boethius to Hugo de St Victoire (1096—1141). It 
distinguished between three ascending levels of Vision: the eye of 
the flesh, of reason and of mystical contemplation. For Böhme, no 
knowledge can be gained "with the corporeal eyes", "but with the 
eyes in which life gives birth to itself in me". He referred to it as 
"seeing through to the ground", "above and outside of nature". 

It is characteristic of Böhme's great influence on the most di¬ 
verse trends that he was able both to provide arguments for staunch 
critics of Newton's materalist conception of the world, such as 
Goethe and Blake, but also inspire Newton himself to formulate his 
theories of gravity and the composition of light. Also present in 
Böhme's work, even before Kepler, is the visionary insight into the 
elliptical orbits of the planets, produced by the polarity of two 
focuses or centres. 


Light & 
Darkness 


252 


Opus Magnum: Light & Darkness 


Opus Magnum: Light & Darkness 


253 









Light & 
Darkness 


A summary of Böhme's System: 

The outermost circle "is the great Mystery of the Abyss, as the divine 
being in the mirror of wisdom (Sophia) gives birth to itself in the 
Byss". This divine procreation through the self-reflection of the ori¬ 
ginal Nothing is the basic dialectical threefold Step of creation. 

The name of God, ADONAI (top sphere) "indicates the opening 
or self-propulsion of the unground, eternal unity". Within it lie six 
intersecting seed-forces. In the central letter S lies the mystery of 
divine androgynity: it Stands both for Sophia and for the virgin Son. 

In the divine in- and exhalation of the three syllables of the 
tetragrammaton JE-HO-VA as the eternal exchange of diastole and 
systole, solve et coagula, the involving principle of the wrathful 
father emerges as the first counterbirth: the dark world. It consists 
of three properties: 

1. The self-centred attracting force (Saturn). From it spring astrin- 
gency, hardness and cold. 

2. The repellent force of "stinging bitterness", also called the "sting 
of sensitivity". From it emerge mercurial mobility and sensual life. 

3. From the Opposition of attraction and repulsion (1 + 2) results the 
rotating "wheel of anxiety" (Mars). 

4. Through friction and rotation, a flash or "Schrack" (fire-crack) is 
produced in the fourth property, the twofold fire of light and 
darkness. Finally, the third principle emerges from this, bipolar, 
four-elemental nature and all created life. The second exhaling prin¬ 
ciple of the son, which rises in the bright spirit-fire, consists of the 
properties: 

5. Light or love, the true spirit (Venus). 

6. Sound, tone: the joyful flow of the five senses (Jupiter). 

7. The essentiality, "the Great Mystery", or the actual substance of 
the visible world (Luna-Sophia). 


254 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Light & 
Darkness 



AND ALL 


/ Thcn^S 

tix muH öfitiviit 

lurt 

Fi-muTioublr. 

, VVhiu,Aiix- 
' intv. 


Ü1 V 

|Kf 

12 

- 




According to 
Böhme, the an- 
cient sages had 
named the planets 
afterthese seven 
properties of na¬ 
ture, "but in this 
they understood 
much more, not 
only the seven 
stars, but also the 
seven kinds of 
properties in the 
procreation of all 
beings. There is 
nothing in the be¬ 
ing of all beings 
that does not con- 
tain seven proper¬ 
ties; for they are 
the wheel of the 
centre, the causes 
of sulphur, in 
which Mercury 
makes the liquid 
for the torment of 
fear“. All seven 
“are born simultan- 
eously and within 
each other, and 
none is the first, 
none the last". 

D.A. Freher, in: 
Works of 
J. Behmen, Law 
Edition , 7 764 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


255 
















Light & 
Darkness 


The divine light 
irradiates all 
things equally, but 
this is assimilated 
in different ways: 
the lower, coarse 
heart swallows it 
like ablack hole, 
the upper, subtle 
heart absorbs and 
emits it. 

R. Fludd, 

Philosophia Sacra, 
Frankfurt , 1626 



"The figure of God is twofold. He has a head of light and a head of 
darkness, a white and a black, an upper and a lower", according 
to the Sefer ha-Zohar, the Book ofSplendour. It was written in I3th- 
century Spain, and after 1500 its influence was unparalleled, extend- 
ing far beyond Jewish circles. 

Fludd referred to the light and the dark aspect in a single God, 
his wanting (voluntas) and not-wanting (noluntas). "God is good, 
whether he wants or does not want, for in God there is no evil." In 
the work of Böhme, too, the severity or anger of God is not in itself a 
negative aspect. Only when Lucifer incited this anger did it become 
"a grim sting of death and a bitter poison". 









1111111 


§§§ra ! \untiSyZ 


The primaterial dark chaos (left) is the 
centripetal principle in God, "where his 
rays are aimed at his own centre". But 
deep within it lies "the cornerstone of 
light". The Creative centrifugal principle of 
light (right) is embodied by Apollo. Seven 


times by day it recreates the man dismem- 
bered at night by his alter ego Dionysus. 

R. Fludd , Philosophia Moysaica, 

Gouda, 1638 


256 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


257 








Light & 
Darkness 


"In the picture 
man Stands atthe 
centre, as be- 
tween the realms 
of Cod and Hell, as 
between love and 
anger; whichever 
spirit it makes its 
own, to that spirit 
it belongs (...)". 

"We have the 
Centrum Naturae 
in ourselves; If we 
makeanangelout 
of ourselves, that 
is what we are; if 
we make a devil 
out of ourselves, 
that too is what 
we are; we are all 
at work, creating, 
we are Standing in 
the field." 

(J. Böhme) 

D.A. Freher, Para¬ 
doxa Emblemata, 
Manuscript , i8th 
Century 



258 


Opus Magnum: Light & Darkness 


Light & 
Darkness 



ln i7go, as an advocate of revolutionary 
ideals of freedom, and an Opponent of all 
moral and state Subordination, Blake 
wrote The Marriage ofHeaven and Hell, a 
spirited polemic against the traditional 
Identification of good and evil as soul and 
body. "But the following (...) are true: (...) 
Man has no body distinct from his soul, 
for that called body is a portion of soul 
discerned by the five senses (...). Energy 
is the only life and is from the body; and 
reason is the (...) outward circumference 
of energy". According to one Cabalistic 
idea, the lower worlds were produced by 
the reflection of the upper lights, and 
accordingly all earthly values and moral 


ideas are reflected. Blake likens this Prob¬ 
lem of re-evaluation to the problem of 
mirror reversal in the printing process. 

The illustration above refers to a Vision of 
Böhme, in which heaven and hell are 
within one another, "and yet neither is ap- 
parent to the other". 

The divine, fertile angels "are in the gentle 
water's matrix", and the hellish and infer¬ 
tile "are enclosed in the hard fire of 
anger". (Böhme) 

W. Blake, The good and evil angels, 
c- 1793-U94 


Opus Magnum: Light 8r Darkness 


259 

















Light & 
Darkness 


Light & 
Darkness 


"So we must seek light; but it is so thin and spiritual that we cannot 
touch it with our hand: so we must seek its dwelling-place, the celes- 
tial, ethereal, oily substance." It was in these terms that the English 
Rosicrucian Thomas Vaughan (writing underthe pseudonym of 
Philalethes) postulated his theory of light, a few years before his 



compatriot Newton performed experiments in which he put light, 
which in his view consisted of a stream of hard 
corpuscles, "on the rack". (Goethe) 

However, it was not the victorious, mechan- 
istic, corpuscular theory which prevailed in the 
i 7 th Century, but the old, alchemical idea of the 
"cohesive quality of oiliness" as a sulphurous 
condensing principle based on the theory of 
gravity and electrical attraction. (Gad Freuden¬ 
thal, Die elektrische Anziehung im 17. Jh. (...) in: 
Die Alchemie in der europäischen Kultur- and 
Wissenschaftsgeschichte, Wiesbaden, ig86) 

In his hermetic treatise 'Siris', Bishop George 
Berkley put forward his conviction that gold could 
be produced by condensing light and by allowing 


J.A. Siebmacher's 
Wasserstein der 
Weisen (1618) is 
among the chymi- 
cal-Christological 
works in which the 
curative effect of 
the mercurial lapis 
is compared tothe 
"celestial corner¬ 
stone". 


it "into the pores of quicksilver". Newton also worked from the 
premise that light could be converted into matter and vice versa. 

This connection has not yet been shown to be untenable. On the 
contrary: the discoveries of 20th-century physics all lead to the con- 
clusion that matter is Condensed light. 

The Paracelsian concept of the "light of nature" running through 
all visible and invisible levels of nature is connected to the gnostic 
idea of the inner light orthe divine spark, which is enclosed within 


the darkness of matter, illuminating it from the centre. 



Here, the English 
Rosicrucian 
Thomas Vaughan 
(1622-1666) teils 
of his encounter 
with Thalia, the 
personification of 
blossoming nature. 
After a violent 
lament at her rape 
by the laboratory 
chymists she leads 
himtothe philo- 
sophical, lunar 
mountains of salt, 
from which the 
Nile of the sper- 
matic prima mate- 
ria springs. The 
darkness of the 
region represents 
the incorrect Aris- 
totelian doctrines, 
in which onewan- 
ders around, until 
one discovers the 
invisible, divine 
"light of nature" in 
the Sal Alkali. The 
green dragon is 
the "philosopher's 
mercury", whose 
treasure can only 
befound by those 
who are as pure as 
children. 

Eugenius Philalet¬ 
hes (T. Vaughan), 
Lumen de Lumine, 
Hamburg , 1693 


260 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


261 









Light & 
Darkness 


Light & 
Darkness 


By the beginning 
of the I7th Cen¬ 
tury, the reception 
of the Cartesian 
corpusculartheory 
showed thatthe 
transition was un- 
der way from an 
organic under- 
standing of nature 
toonethat was 
mathematical and 
mechanical. Labo- 
ratory chymists 
and followers of 
traditional 
alchemy, now 
mocked as 
"Paracelsian fan- 
atics", were in- 
creasingly irrecon- 
cilable adver- 
saries, as can be 
seen here in the 
title engraving for 
Johann Kunckel's 
'Ars vitraria': on 
the left, the Experi- 
mentia, whose 
"light of nature" 
is ignited by the 
Sun of Truth in 
the burning glass 
of Reason; on the 
right is "Unrea- 
son" and lunatic 
"Fantasy", both 
of which wander 
in the darkness of 
foolishness. 

Johann Kunckel, 

Ars vitraria experi- 
mentalis , Nurem- 
berg , 7 744 





IOHfoOH 


EATEWNLVmi 

Nrrriirt&e, ryce -j 
ApuPOtnJtqpA 








RATIO. 


vfvi ' - M -i r */i 


stusvs 


Of Kircher's Ars 
magna lucis et um- 
brae , Goethe 
writes in his His- 
tory ofColourThe- 
ory: "Here for the 
first time it is 
clearly suggested 
that light, shade 
and colour should 
be considered as 
theelements of 
seeing; although 
the colours are 
represented as 
the monstrous 
product of the 
first two." 

Here, light and 
shade, as the 
Habsburg double- 
headed eagle, are 
assigned to the 
Sun (Apollo), and 
the colours, as a 
peacock, to the 
Moon (Diana). 

The beams of light 
represent degrees 
of knowledge, in 
which the sensor- 
ily perceptible in 
the Platonic sense, 
only achievesthe 
Status of a faint 
reflection of the 
divine light in the 
dark cave of the 
body. 

A. Kircher, Ars 
magna lucis, Rome , 

1665 


262 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


263 





Light & 
Darkness 


The conjunction of 
sun and moon as 
an allegory of the 
marriage of macro- 
and microcosm 
by astronomy and 
alchemy: in the 
Cabalistic and her- 
metic view, the 
upper, empyrean 
waters are male, 
the lower, atmo- 
spheric waters are 
female. The re- 
flecting water in 
thetubsymbolizes 
the astronomer's 
telescopic lens. 

Erasmus Francis- 
cus. Das eröffnete 
Lust-Haus der 
Ober- und Nieder¬ 
welt , Nuremberg , 
1676 



Light & 
Darkness 



Here, against the background of the four 
elements, the basic directions in hermetic 
philosophy are captured by the eye of the 
imagination. 

Upwards (sursum) and downwards (deor- 
sum), fire A and water V, sun and moon 
merge in the mercurial world-soul, whose 
mirror image is the lapis in the retort 
stream. The process runs backwards 
(retrorsum), since it begins with the old 
Saturn and ends with the young Sol. To the 
right, he divides matter into two compo- 
nents and then reunites them (on the left) 
in the trinity of body, soul and spirit 
(flowervases). 

C.A. Baldinus, Aurum Hermeticum, 
Amsterdam , 1675 





f 1 * 

JM Jb ', 


Chymischer 
Mondenschein 1, 
Frankfurt , Leipzig 1, 
1739 


264 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


265 















Light & 
Darkness 



The Masonic lodges of the late Enlighten- 
ment were nuclei for the transmission of 
democratic and humanitarian ideals. They 
played a great role in the movement for 
American independence and in the incuba- 
tion of the French Revolution. 


Here, an assembly room, flooded with the 
light of truth, Stands underthe patronage 
of Faith, Hope and Charity. 

Masonic Allegory, Book of Constitutions, 
1784 



Light & 
Darkness 


From the sun of 
unitytheten 
primal numbers 
(the Sephiroth) fall 
into the space of 
creation, forming 
the measure of 
all things. "To the 
side is a genius 
with a child; the 
genius is Stretch¬ 
ing his right arm 
towards the sun - 
emblematicof 
the necessity 
of approaching 
unity; with the 
compass in his left 
hand he is measur- 
ing the child's 
heart - a symbol 
suggesting that 
simplicity and 
power must unite 
to ascend to the 
unity, which is 
the source of all 
things." 

Von Eckharts¬ 
hausen, Zahlen¬ 
lehre der Natur, 
Leipzig, 1794 


Opus Magnum: Light & Darkness 


Opus Magnum: Light & Darkness 


267 


266 


















































Light & 
Darkness 


ln his Ars magna 
lucis Kircher pro- 
vided the first 
descriptions of a 
Laterna Magica , 
thus making it 
populär. This 
apparatus forthe 
projection of 
pictures painted 
on glass was a di¬ 
rect predecessor 
of the slide and 
film projector. 
Much of its devel¬ 
opment was due 
tothe optical ex- 
periments of 
Giambattista della 
Porta ( 1535 - 1615 L 
who can in many 
respects be seen 
as Kircher's 
precursor. 


A. Kircher , 

Ars magna lucis , 
Amsterdam , 1671 


268 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Light & 
Darkness 



"Visible world. To 
construct it f rom 
light and darkness. 
Or break it down 
into light and 
darkness. That is 
thetask, forthe 
visible world, 
which we take to 
be a unity, is most 
agreeably con- 
structed from 
thosetwo begin- 
nings." (Goethe, 
Lectures on 
Physics, 1806) 

Franciscus Aguilo- 
nius. Optica , i6n 




















270 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Darkness 


No. 1. Form and 
matter, spiritual 
and physical 
principle as a light 
and dark comb. 


No. 2. The combs 
can bedepicted as 
two hemispheres, 
"the upper one 
corresponding to 
the male, genera¬ 
tive nature, and 
the othertothe 
female, receptive 
to the seed of 
light. This material 
hemisphere is like 
wax which is 
formed by the seal 
of the spirit". 


/?. Fludd. 
Utriusque Cosmi 
Oppenheim. 1619 


JYy 


7 V/«. 



Darkness 


271 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


The great sex act 
of heaven and 
earth: 


"The actual prod- 
uct of this mixture 
can be seen in 
No. 2, in which the 
spiritual fire de- 
clines by degrees 
as it approaches 
the earth." 


The divine sperm- 
atic influx is the 
famous dew of the 
alchemists, which 
shouldonly be 
collected on 
spring nights, 
when the sky is 
completely clear 
andthetempera- 
ture is mild. 


R. Fludd. 
Utriusque Cosmi. 
Oppenheim. 1619 







Light & 
Darkness 


From the central 
earth, two bal- 
anced lines of 
force pull the 
sixty-three layers 
of the upper and 
lower worlds of 
the Hindu cosmos. 
The red back- 
ground represents 
the endless spatial 
mass consisting of 
atomic particles. 

Gouache on paper, 
Rajasthan, c. 1800 



272 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Light & 
Darkness 









"I confess before 
my God that I 
could say so much 
about the possible 
uses of these two 
pyramids that I 
could easily fill a 
huge volume." 
(Fludd, Philosoph■ 
ical Key, c. 161g) 

The upper third is 
the region of the 
divine, fiery 
heaven (Empyran), 
the lower of the 
elemental heaven. 
The central 
sphere, which con- 
sists of equal parts 
of upper light and 
lower matter, 

Fludd assigned to 
the ether, the 
"fiery air". The 
path of the sun 
runs straight 
throughthe inter- 
sections, "which 
Platoniststhere- 
fore referred to as 
the sphere of the 
soul (sol)." 

R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Oppenheim, 
1619 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


273 















































Light & 
Darkness 


No other medieval thinker so crucially in- 
fluenced the hermetic and theosophical 
Systems of the i6th and i/th centuries as 
the Neoplatonic universal scholar Nikolaus 
of Cusa, or Cusanus (1401-1464). His con- 
cept of the coincidence of all opposites in 
God and consequent speculations about 
the infinity of the universe and human 
existence helped to colour the views of 


basis pyramis tcncbrac 



spnj siuibjXcI siscq 


Marsiiio Ficino and Pico della Mirandola 
and influenced Giordano Bruno. In his 
most important theorems Fludd builds 
upon this concept, and through the influ- 
ence of Valentin Weigel some aspects of 
Cusanus' epistemology flowed into the 
works of Jacob Böhme. 

In his text 'On conjecture' [De coniecturis, 
c. 1440) Cusanus uses two diagrams to 
explain his theory of the four levels of 
knowledge in which man participates. 

The 'Figura Paradigmatica' (P) shows the 
universe in the interpenetration of two 
pyramids, whose two bases he calls unity 
(unitas) and otherness (alteritas). In these 
two, all other opposites are contained: 
God and the Void, Light and Darkness, 
Possibility and Reality, Universal and Par- 
ticular, Male and Female. 

Rise and fall, evolution and involution are 
one and the same. The progress of the one 
is the retreat of the other. "God is in the 
world" is just as valid as "the world is in 
God." 

Nikolaus ofCusa, Mutmaßungen, 

Hamburg edition, 1988 


274 


Opus Macnum: Light & Darkness 


Ladder 



ln Cusanus' second 
diagram, which 
he entitled 'Figura 
universi' (U), 
withinthe outer 
boundaries of the 
universe there are 
three interlocking 
worlds: the world 
of God, the world 
of intelligence 
and the world of 
the rational soul, 
whose outer crusts 
are thesenses. In 
this lower region, 
contradictions 
cannot be recon- 
ciled, in the 
middle region they 
areabolished and 
then ascend in 
complete affirma- 
tion in the upper 
world of God. 

Nikolaus ofCusa, 
Mutmaßungen, 
Hamburg edition, 
1988 


In Kircher's modi- 
fication of the 
figure U the chain 
of worlds, follow- 
ing the theory 
of the pseudo- 
Areopagite, is 
also divided into 
nine choirs, the 
lowest sphere of a 
choir coinciding 
with the topmost 
of the next choir. 

A. Kircher, 
Musurgia Univer¬ 
sal is, Rome, 1650 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


275 



Ladder 



"Through a golden 
chain which from 
our corrupt nature 
is let down on to 
the earth from 
above, our charac* 
ter or rational soul 
climbs by divine 
assistance through 
the Orders of crea- 
tures from the 
lowest(...)to the 
craftsman and 
architect of all 
things." (Oswald 
Croll, Tractatus de 
signaturis internis 
rerum, 1647) 


"Everything is 
connected with 
everything, right 
through to the 
nethermost end of 
all the links of the 
chain, and thetrue 
essence of God is 
both above and 
below, in the 
heavens and on 
earth, and nothing 
exists apart from 
it." (Zohar) 


Geheime Figuren 
der Rosenkreuzer , 
Altona , 1785 


SCALA PHILOSOPHORVM CAßALlSTlCA MaCIA 

atque arbor aurea 

DE MYSTERIIS NVMERIS QVATERNAK.il. QVINARII ATQVE SEPTENARII. 


HER METIS 
AtTREA 


frr Wann, brr birfr 
Origen fonn.unbiffet 
gmrtji, bo6 Gott 
mflnrtjt. 


MATER 1 A 


PROPINQVA 


3fit enl)f uni) 

SAPIENTIBVS SATIS 


MATERIA 

AVIS 
CAT ENA 


ijt rin rrtfct tori 
Cettrraufunbuieber 
oon birfrr 33aum> 
unb Statur i(>n nid>t 


EST DICTVM. 


S>i< i(l ton brn 
Gurrt unb 5 Ö 6 ft 6 . 
logrt oiclr Wen 


SJoum bri 2Bi|Trni 
baoon norf) I)nilige4 
fd)rn brn Job rffrn. 


276 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


Ladder 



Inscription: "The 
world is linked by 
invisible knots" 

"From very hidden 
properties the 
beasts, the plants 
of the earth and 
almost all kinds of 
natural body have 
a certain motion 
towards one an- 
other, which one 
might liken to a 
passion; partly 
sympathy, partly 
antipathy (...), we 
see, as it were, a 
large rope drawn 
from heaven down 
intothe depths, 
through which 
everything is 
linked together 
and becomes as 
one piece and this 
band canbe com- 
pared with the 
links of a chain 
and pull hitherthe 
rings of Plato 
and the golden 
chain of Homer." 
(Giambattista 
della Porta, Magia 
Naturalis, Nurem- 
berg edition, 1715) 

A. Kircher, Mag- 
neticum naturae 
regnum, Rome , 
1667 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


277 



















Ladder 


The author of the three-volume Aurea solid male saltpetre ® and fluid female sal 

catena Homeri (1723), said to be an Aus- alkali ©. These two produce acidic alkaline 

trian doctor by the name of Kirchweger, salt ©. 

gives a detailed description of the cycle 

of nature as an eternal outflow and return Everything elemental consists of these 
of the world spirit O. As dew or rain it three things, and after death and decay it 

reaches the earth, where it condenses into forms itself back into dew and rain. 


Chaos 

Spiritus Mundi vo« 
Spiritus Mundi 

Spiritus Mundi fixus 

Materia prima omnium 
rium immediata 

Anw 

Vege. 

Mine- 

Spiritus Mundi con~ 
Extra&um Chao- 

Pcrfcßio eonfunw 
Lilomia 



confufum, 

latilis incorporeus, 
acidus corporeus. 

•Italiens corporeu*. 

coocrerorum fublim»* 
feu Azotb. 

malia. 

tabilii. 

ralia. 

cenrratus fixus, fiYt 
ticum purum. 

m«a, five Quinta 
Univeifi. 


When Goethe was intensely involved with 
alchemy in i768/6g, he was particularly at- 
tracted by this book, because in it nature 
"albeit perhaps in a fantasic way, is de- 
picted as a lovely association". It not only 
inspired him to write verses: "As all things 
weave into a whole / one in the other 
works and lives! As the powers of heaven 
rise and fall/ and give each other the 
golden pail" (Faust), but also stimulated 
his own laboratory work. In Dichtung und 
Wahrheit he wrote that these experiments 
required alkalis "which, when they dis¬ 
perse in the air, connect with superterres- 
trial things and are supposed to produce a 
mysterious, median salt". 

A.J. Kirchweger, Annulus Platonis (Aurea 
Catena Homeri), 1781, Berlin reprint, 1921 


278 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 



Ladder 


"A fourfold sphere 
of firegoverns this 
Work." 


"The bottom is of Vulcanus, the next shows 
Mercurius, the third is the Moon's, into 
the top the sun rises, which is the fire of 
nature. Let this chain be your commander, 
that it may guide your hands in art." The 
lower, elemental fire, whose regulation is 
the alpha and omega of the work, penet- 
rates all the others and magnetically holds 
the chain together. Each fire has its own 
centre and its own movement in the Work, 
and one affects the other. The lunar and 
the mercurial fire are menstrua, strong 
solvents. He calls them dragons, which 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


279 


devour, spur on and transform the serpents 
of their own sex. 


The upper, solar fire is the great arcanum, 
which Paracelsus called the bright "essen¬ 
tial fire", in contrast to the dark, elemental 
fire. This fire is the Creative agent in the 
Work. Alexander von Bernus noted the 
close kinship of the Latin names Sol and 
Sal. 


Michael Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppen¬ 
heim, 1618 



















Ladder 


From a series 
about the creation 
of the universe out 
of the Creative, 
the preserving and 
the dissolving 
forces. The inter- 
penetrating 
energy circles 
emanate from a 
single source. 

Painting, Western 
India, c. i8th Cen¬ 
tury 



280 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


Ladder 



TJUSJB o/’//tr S O T'L. 


1 


The tree of the 
soul is rooted in 
the dark world of 
divine anger, and 
grows in two 
directions: to the 
right is self-will, 
influenced by the 
oppressing "side- 
real spirit of this 
world" and the 
astral influences 
of the lower fiery 
heaven. On the 
left is selflessness, 
illuminated by the 
light of the holy 
spirit. Thistrunk 
alone leads up- 
wards throughthe 
four Cabalistic 
worlds or layers of 
the soul. 

D.A. Freher, in: 
Works of 
J. Behmen , Law 
Edition, 1764 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


281 


















Ladder 


Ladder 


On the left-hand 
track the soul rises 
via the nine Steps 
of the empyrean 
and the ethereal 
heavens and then 
falls into the 
elemental realm. 
On the right, it 
descends again. 
Ascending and 
descending. said 
Cusanus. are one 
and the same.The 
“art of conjecture“ 
lies in connecting 
the two with a 
keen intelligence. 

Fludd took the 
division of the 
steps from the 
depictions of the 
Pythagorean 
lambda, put 
forward by the 
Franciscan 
Francesco Giorgio, 
a man interested 
in numerical 
speculations. as 
presented in his 
work De Harmonia 
Mundi (1525). 

R. Fludd, 

Philosophia sacra, 
Frankfurt, 1626 




vCttcr crnim 


CyolUTTtaS «iturru 




“Just as the triune 
creator descended 
through the three- 
times-three Orders 
of angels to us 
men, soshouldwe 
rise through the 
same. as if on Ja- 
cob's Ladder, to 
God.“ (A. Kircher, 
Musurgia univer¬ 
sale, 1662 edition) 

The division of the 
upper regions of 
the cosmos into 
the nine choirs of 
angels is taken 
from the work, 

On the heavenly 
hierarchs by the 
Alexandrian 
Pseudo-Dionysius 
(c. A.D. 500). In 
the gth Century, it 
was translated 
into Latin by the 
Irishman John 
Scotus Erugiena, 
whose own major 
work, Of the 
division ofnature 
described the 
world as an 
emanation from 
God, to whom 
it must inevitably 
retum. 

Manuscript, I2th 
Century 


282 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


283 





















Ladder 


Passage from "The ladder of the number 


"Through natural things we achieve 
natural forces, through abstract, mathe- 
matical and celestial things, celestial 
forces" wrote Agrippa von Nettesheim 
(1486-1535) in his Standard work on magic 
De occuttaphilosophia, a Compilation of 
Neoplatonic ideas, astral magic texts of 
Arab origin and Cabalistic teachings 
mostly taken from the writings of Pico 
della Mirandola. 

The ladder is divided horizontally into six 
Steps from the underworld, via the 
world of the elements, to the archetypal 
world, with the ten names of God and the 
Sephiroth. When the magician meditated 
on these ladders and memorized them, 
he wanted "not only to use the forces 
already available in the more noble, na¬ 
tural objects, but also to draw new ones 
down to himself from above." 

Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occutta 
philosophia, 1510 


in Ar- *n ri rrmn* \ xn *xixn *m 

cheiy- 'Nomen quadriliiernm eol iNomen auadnlircru erten 
pp- derem ficcrarom. \ turn d eccm literarum. 

rvri.N ' mn” “b’nViOx TuuTni^iT 

Ebeie lod letra I n1n » #E1 ;OTnX Eloh« 

• granamma Tccrag.l .Elohun 

Elobimj IGibor 

nnD no^rr n yi id n rmaa fNRfin 

Kcch Hochma ßinah Hafcd Gcbu- T »phc- 

__ __ _ ! r?h rnrh 

lft mun ^ era Chcru*> Ibioni Domi~ roteiia. ^ aiu ' 
dointel Pk* m P ilT ! 1 natiöes res tcs 

hgibili. Haioth Ophanim Aralim Halma- Sera- Mala - 

t*] aKa - i t lim phim chim 

dos f \ r 

Metat ilophicl Za Ih- : ZadKiel Camael Ra ph a * 
«on £ Kie l I 1 cl 


• Kcichit MasloclT 
) 1**^- I 

lalim | 

1 Prim u Sphxra 
[ mobile zodiaci 


Sabba»1 
rhai I 


\ nies 


Sphzra Sphxra S P* , * n 

Iou,s Mams S0l,S - 


rin T| UI1 Co ^ üm t'I i ardus II 

^r ba - l | 

mundo I 

In mun ' leudo.^ rllus 1 

do.nfer thci m P ndacij j, 


Vafa ini 
iquiraris. 


Vlrores Rijj® 
lccicrö atorcs poiefta . 


284 


Opus Magnum: Ladder 



Ladder 


ln man, various faculties of knowledge - 
sensory perception, the imagination, rea- 
son and deep insight - correspond to the 
tiered arrangement of the macrocosm. The 
last rung is the direct comprehension of 
the divine word in meditation. The ladder 


extends no further, because God himself 
cannot be comprehended. 


R. Fludd', Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. II, 
Oppenheim, 1619 


Opus Magnum: Ladder 


Ladder 


Here, the intellect 
Stands at the foot 
of the ladder of 
creation, which 
leads upwards 
from the mineral 
realm via the levels 
of plant, animal, 
man and angel up 
to God, where 
Sophia, wisdom, 
has built her 
house. The figure 
symbolizing the 
intellect holds the 
instrument that 
is to enable him 
to climbupand 
down, adisc of the 
ars generalis of the 
Catalan philoso- 
pher and Christian 
mystic Ramon Lull 
(1235-1316). He 
developed this 
"universal know- 
ledge" to convert 
the two world 
religions in com- 
petition with 
Christianity, 
Judaism and Islam, 
by proving to them 
the superiority 
of the Christian 
doctrines. 

Ramon Lull , De 
nova logica, 1512 



0apienria cdificauic fibi pomum 


0calemteüb 


Dcao / 


^Iiej Bc? 


iCciom 


plrna 


falaitcUö ] 


286 


Opus Magnum: Ladder 


Ladder 


Ramon Lull took as absolutely fundamental principles for his work a 
series of nine properties or names of God such as goodness, great- 
ness, power, upon which both Jewish and Islamic mystics meditated. 
To these divine attributes he assigned the letters B-K. The first letter 
was not used, as it was reserved for the secret aspect of God, the En- 
Soph. Furthermore, nine relative predicates, Cardinal questions, sub- 
jects, virtues and vices were assigned to the main algebraic key. By 
rotating the discs, on which the series of letters was printed on dif¬ 
ferent rings, one could obtain all possible combinations of these con- 
cepts, mechanically answer all possible questions and even invent 
new ones. 

The "Ars Raymundi" exerted a great influence because with his 
creation Lull gave a new dynamics to thought, freeing it from the 
restraints of the hierarchial structures of medieval concepts. The 
concepts were now understood relative to one another, in relation- 
ships that were open because they could be reversed. 

Cusanus called this disc-art "circular theology". The develop¬ 
ment of his own theory of the coincidence of opposites and the 
boundlessness of all things was only made possible by Lull's break- 
through. 

Lull Leibniz, the inventor of the German calculator, praised Lull 
as the godfather of mathematically, formalized logic. "Lull's arith- 
metic dream," according to Ernst Bloch, had now become "a whole 
industry of ideas, with speed as witchcraft". (Das Prinzip Hoffnung, 
Frankfurt/Main, 1974) 

The Christian Cabalists posthumously declared him one of their 
own, and from Agrippa von Nettesheim to Giordano Bruno his 
combinatory art was charged with astro-magical ideas. The rotating 
wheel was always the prototype for all developmental processes, 
and could therefore depend on the sympathy of the alchemists, who 
devoted a huge amount of hermetic writing to it. 



Ramon Lull, Ars 
Brevis, Opera, 
Strasbourg, 1617 



C. Bruno, Opera, 
Naples edition, 
1886 


Opus Magnum: Ladder 


287 





Ladder 


Ladder 


Athanasius Kircher used Lull's combinatory art as a general method, 
enabling him to link all his individual research into an enormous net- 
work. Kircher shared the Cabalistic view that creation is a combina¬ 
tory act, a process of multiplication by endless permutation of the 
nine, revealed, divine, attributes or Sephiroth. In this view the whole 
universe is nothing but a construction of structural analogies and 
correspondences that follows the laws of logic and harmonic propor- 
tions. 

In his Ars magna sciendi (1669), Kircher constructed a large 
baroque System of signs on the basis of Lull's work, generally replac- 
ing the terms with "hieroglyphs". He understood them as having 
symbolic meanings which went far beyond what could be grasped by 
the senses. 


Figure A of Lull's 
'Ars'. The network 
of relationships is 
designed to un- 
derline thetrini- 
tary relationships 
between the nine, 
divine attributes. 
The System is re¬ 
lated to Gurdji- 
eff'stheory of the 
enneagram. Both 
are taken from the 
source of Sufism, 
the Islamic branch 
of mysticism with 
Neoplatonic and 
Pythagorean influ- 
ences. 

A. Kircher, Ars 
magna sciendi, 
Amsterdam, 1669 




Combinatory chart, with the universal sub- 
jects in the middle (upper row: God, angel, 
heaven), top left: the absolute principles, 
the attributes of God (upper row: good- 
ness, greatness, duration), top right: the 
relative principles (top row: difference, 
agreement, Opposition), bottom left: nine 
Statements, bottom right: nine questions. 

A. Kircher , Ars magna sciendi, 

Amsterdam, 1669 


1 *An. 


A 




3 


Cur 



6 . 


QuJe 


y. uti 


8. 9 mvtdo 


q. Buthucum. 
'tc'fUO 



"Universal diagram for the formation of 
questions about every possible question." 

A. Kircher, Ars magna sciendi, 

Amsterdam, 1669 


288 


Opus Magnum: Ladder 


Opus Magnum: Ladder 


289 



Ladder 


"The nine philo- 
sophers at the 
right-hand edge 
of the picture 
embody the nine 
doubts, which can 
arise in the face 
of the nine object - 
realms of the 
universe; these 
are listed on the 
first ladder." 

Ramon Lull , 
Breviculum, 
i4th Century 



On the second ladder Lull demonstrated 
the nine absolute and relative principles: 
"(...) these rules guide the willing reason 
according to certain principles, from the 
tower of trust, away from the doubs of 
your questions, for they embrace the 
causes of everything in existence." But 
the "Ars" ends at the tower. Its summit 
and the haloed trinity can now be reached 


by the "rope of mercy" which the hand of 
God is lowering. At the top of this hangs 
the intellect, followed by memory, the will 
and the seven virtues. The seven vices 
roast in Hell. (Translated inscriptions: 

W. Büchel/T. Pindl-Büchel, in: Lullus-Ie 
Myesier, Electorium parvum seu Breviculum. 
Wiesbaden, 1988.) 


290 


Opus Magnum: Ladder 


Ladder 



The thirty rungs 
of the ladder rep- 
resent the thirty 
virtues recited 
by John Klimakos, 
an abbot at St 
Catherine's 
Monastery in Sinai 
towards the end of 
the 6th Century, in 
atreatise for the 
moral fortitude of 
monks. They face 
the same number 
of vices, here em- 
bodied by devils. 
On the topmost 
rungs, most virtu- 
ous of all, marches 
the abbot himself. 

The'ladder of 
heaven' of John 
Klimakos. 

I2th Century 


Opus Magnum: Ladder 


291 



















































Ladder 


From a Jesuit 
devotional book: 
"Consider what 
you intend to do in 
this Ahourand 
(...) B direct your 
works and your 
Steps (...)towards 
theglory of God, C 
with an ardent 
heart; and you can 
be surethat with- 
out D God's mercy 
you can do noth¬ 
ing. (...) Arrange 
your works equally 
according to E 
weight, number 
and measure, just 
as if F you were 
facing death G and 
angels and H dev- 
ils were watching 
all your deeds at- 
tentively. But do I 
good works, just 
as if K your grave 
was already being 
dug (...); complete 
your works L 
according to the 
exampleof Christ 
and the saints; 

M the angels bring 
them (your works) 
before God. But 
above all (...) al- 
ways bear in mind 
N that God and 
the heavenly host 
are always watch¬ 
ing you." 

A. Sucquet, Via 
Vitae Aeternae, 
Antwerp, 1625 



292 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


Ladder 



Opus Macnum: Ladder 


293 


The ascentinto 
the mysteries of 
Freemasonry is 
based on thethree 
"Great Lights": 
Bible, compass 
and square. The 
glyph O defines 
the Freemason's 
taskby placing 
him, as a point at 
the centre, in rela- 
tionto the infin¬ 
ite, circular hori- 
zon. The two ver- 
ticals are the two 
Johns, the Baptist 
and the Evangel¬ 
ist, who stand by 
him. The Jacob's 
Ladder represents 
the process that is 
supposed to trans- 
form the raw stone 
(apprentice, Prima 
Materia) into the 
cubic stone (lapis). 


The female fig- 
ures: Faith, Hope 
and Charity. The 
columns: Strength 
(S), Wisdom (W) 
and Beauty (B). 
The board shows 
that the appren¬ 
tice level is still 
caught up in anti- 
nomianthinking. 


J. Bowring, First 
Degree Board, 1819 






























Ladder 


Whilethe ascent 
on the apprentice 
board leads 
straight up a lad¬ 
der - as an expres- 
sion of the original 
will, followinga 
projection - at the 
more advanced 
level of the jour- 
neyman, what we 
now have is a 
curved path in the 
form of a seven- 
step spiral stair- 
case, in which it is 
no longer clear 
where the begin- 
ning and end are. 
This expresses the 
slow and organic 
course of the 
process of spir¬ 
itual maturity. 

One image of this 
isthe earof corn 
growing beside 
the endless river 
of life. 

J. Bowring, Second 
Degree Board, 1819 



294 


Opus Magnum: Ladder 


Ladder 





The two columns 
of Jachin and Boas 
indicate that we 
are nowinside the 
temple of Solo¬ 
mon. The seven 
steps symbolize 
the seven phases 
of the process, the 
seven levels of 
consciousness and 
the seven liberal 
arts. 

Here, everything 
still occurs in the 
side chambers of 
the temple: the 
holy of holies at 
the centre only 
discloses itself 
"when One has 
come of Two" and 
the portal of death 
and corruption 
has been crossed. 
(cf. p. 223) 

F. Curtis , Work 
Chart for the 2nd 
Level, 1801 


Opus Magnum: Ladder 


295 

































































Ladder 


"Improvement 
makes straight 
roads; but the 
crooked roads 
without improve¬ 
ment are the roads 
of Genius." 

(W. Blake, 

Marriage ofHeaven 
and Hell', 1793) 


Ph. 0 . Runge, 
Perspektivische 
Konstruction einer 
Wendeltreppe 



"I want! I want!" 


W. Blake, The Gates 
ofParadise, 1793 



296 


Opus Magnum: Ladder 


Ladder 



A ladder appeared 
to Jacob in a 
dream, "and the 
top of it reached 
to heaven: and 
theangelsof God 
were going up and 
down on it". 
(Genesis 28,12) 

For Blake, the im- 
ageof Jacob's 
Ladder as a gate 
to heaven was 
closely allied to 
the anatomy of 
the ear, whose 
passages he calls 
"the endlessly 
twisting spiral 
ascents to the 
Heaven of Heavens 
According to 
Swedenborg, with 
whose writings 
Blake was familiär, 
the "opening of 
the inner ear" is 
the precondition 
for making contact 
with the higher 
worlds. 

W. Blake, Jacob's 
Ladder, c. 1800 


Opus Magnum: Ladder 


297 














Ladder 


Ladder 


1 The column 
Jachin 

2 The column 
Boaz 

3 The seven steps 
to the temple 

4 The mosaic 
pavement 

5 The window to 
the west 

6 The trestle 
board for the 
masters 

7 The blazing star 

8 The window to 
the south 

9 The plumb 

10 The window to 
the east 

11 The level 

12 The rough ashlar 

13 The square 

14 The pointed, 
cubical stone 

15 Thetassei 

A The place of 
the Grand 
Master 

B The place of 
the first warden 

C The place of 
the second 
warden 

D Thealtar 

E The stool 

F G H The three 
lights 

L'ordre des Francs- 

Magons trahi..., 

Amsterdam , 1745 



298 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 



NATION 


■PACTION 


mnorsr 


CALTI NATION 


wen 


Iwj 



The alchemist is 
led astray until the 
fleeting mercurial 
hare indicates the 
correct source 
material, behind 
whose rough fa- 
cade, via the seven 
steps of the pro- 
ce$s, a palace is 
revealed. Here, 
the principles of 
Sol and Luna unite 
to form the lapis, 
the "philosophical 
mercury", which 
crowns the dorne 
in the form of a 
phoenix. 

The zodiac indic¬ 
ates that the Work 
begins in May, in 
the sign of Taurus. 
Each sign of the 
zodiac corres- 
pondsto a Chemi¬ 
cal substance. 

S. Michelspacher , 
Cabala, Augsburg , 
1616 


Opus Macnum: Ladder 


299 







Ladder 


Ladder 


The Alchymia of Andreas Libavius (1540-1616) is considered to be the 
first systematic textbook of Chemistry, inspired by the attempt to 
impose a structure of clearly defined concepts upon a diffuse, al- 
chemistic nomenclature. 

With his tireless attacks on Paracelsian fanatics, whom he ac- 
cused of blasphemy and black magic, he prompted Robert Fludd to 
write his first apologia forthe Rosicrucians in 1616. 


The structure of 
the Opus Magnum 
is divided into 
three storeys: 


'Crrsciu (i m Ül y 


>lie»w/wi 


In the first Work 
(the bottom 
sphere), the prima 
materia is com- 
pletely cleansed 
by a series of dis* 
tillations, and 
passes through 
the unifying gate 
of putrefaction. 




The double- 
headed green lion 
in the foreground 
is spewing out the 
solvents on which 
the Work is based. 
The seven Steps 
symbolize the 
alternating phases 
of dissolution 
(left)and coagula- 
tion (right). At the 
top sit King Sul- 
phurand Queen 
Mercury in the 
chymical bath, 
from which grows 
the tree with the 
golden apples of 
the Hesperides. 
Above them are 
the six stars of the 
multiplicatio. 


In the second 
(the three upper 
spheres), it is 
permanently 
fixed. The swan 
symbolizes the 
lunar tincture, the 
white elixir. 


The third Work, 
beginning with the 
royal wedding, 
brings the birth 
of the phoenix: 
the solar tincture 
orthe red elixir. 


A. Libavius, 
Alchymia, Frank¬ 
furt, 1606 


A. Libavius, 
Alchymia, Frank¬ 
furt, 1606 


Opus Magnum: Ladder 




jff 

% 

Ar 



fß | 






Ladder 


Ladder 


Libavius provides a detailed description of the illustration, a slightly 
abbreviated Version of which is presented here: 

C Four-headed dragon as the four degrees of the fire of the first Op¬ 
eration. 

D Mercury with the green lion (E) and a dragon (F) on a leash. These 
two signify the same mercurial fluid, the prima materia of the lapis. 

G Three-headed eagle spews a white fluid into the sea from one of 
its heads (H). It is called "the eagle's blaze", a rubbery, binding 
agent. The wind (I) blows upon it. 

K The blood of the red lion also flows into it. 

M A mountain rising out of the black water of putrefaction. It is 
black at the bottom, and at the top, from which there flows a silver 
spring, white. The heads of the ravens rise from the black sea (N). 

O Silver rain (Azoth) feeds Latona (M) and washes away its black- 
ness. 

Q The Ouroboros is the Symbol of the second fixing after the 
second putrefaction. 

R The Ethiopians, supporting the spheres at the sides, signify the 
blackness of the second Operation in the second putrefaction. 

T The swan is the white elixir, the arsenic of the philosophers. 

It spews a milky fluid into the pure silver sea (S), the mercurial fluid 
which acts as an agent to unite the tinctures. 

X When the sun dips into the mercurial sea into which the elixir is 
also to flow, the true solar eclipse occurs (V), with the rainbow (pea- 
cock's tail) on either side. It is the sign of the fixing. 

Y Lunar eclipse as a symbol of the white fermentation. 
a King in crimson with golden lion and red lily. 
b Queen with silver eagle and white lily. 

c Phoenix burning on the sphere; from the ashes a large number of 
silver and gold birds fly up as a sign of multiplication. 



A. Libavius. 
Alchymia, Frank¬ 
furt, 1606 


302 


Opus Magnum: Ladder 


Opus Magnum: Ladder 


303 



Philosophical 

tree 


This depiction of 
the Sephiroth tree 
is indebted to the 
Opus Magnum. 

The dissolving and 
binding powers sit 
opposite one an- 
otheron the 
branches: on the 
bottom left is 
volatile Mercury 
with the winged 
shoes, andto his 
right isthefire- 
spitting Sulphur. 
Above them, diag* 
onaily reversed, 
are theirforms in a 
sublimated and 
crowned state. On 
the top level. the 
third Work, the 
two unite as the 
lunar tincture. 
From this there 
finally emerges 
the solid sulphur, 
the son of the 
sun. He wearsthe 
crowns of the 
three realms, veg- 
etable, animal and 
mineral. 

J.D. Mylius, 
Anatomia auri, 
Frankfurt, 1628 





Philosophical 

tree 



The Alexander 
novel, populär in 
the Middle Ages, 
teils of the oracu- 
lartrees of the sun 
and moon. Ob- 
servations of the 
appearance of 
tree-like crystal* 
lizations in the 
retort must also 
have contributed 
to thedissemi- 
nation of thissym- 
bolism: 

"They grow in the 
glasses in the form 
oftrees, and by 
continued circula- 
tionsthetrees are 
dissolved again 
into new mercury 
(...). The gold 
beginsto swell, to 
blow itself up, and 
to putrefy, and 
also to spring 
forth intosprouts 
and branches (...) 
which every day 
impresses me 
anew." (Isaac 
Newton, quoted 
in: Betty Dobbs, 
The Foundations of 
Newton 's Alchemy, 
Cambridge, ig 75 ) 

Pseudo-Lull, 
Alchemical Treatise, 
c. 1470 


304 


Opus Macnum: Philosophical tree 


Opus Magnum: Philosophical tree 


305 





Philosophical 

tree 


Philosophical 

tree 


"We have painted 
the composition of 
the trees of the 
forest together on 
one sheet." The 
ribbons indicate 
their compatibility 
in the process. 

J. Lacinius, 

Pretiosa Margarita , 
Venice, 1546 , 
Leipzig edition, 

1714 




'i qucnmtcrtnnci-fflW 

jlvaw.dl .wtrm tu 


roipuc, iit* J$wum,fpiuW: 

■ l>'*' ■ 


Ktrtfw* 


From the dead 
body succumbing 
to decay at the 
bottom of the re- 
tort, "the mercur- 
ial soul, the spirit, 
thetincture is ex- 
tracted". Accord- 
ing to Gerard 
Dorneus, mercury 
is "the mineral 
root of the tree 
that nature has 
planted in the 
middle of her 
womb". All metals 
emerge from it 
and its branches, 
are spread over 
the wholesurface 
of the world, like 
the veins in the 
body. (Gerardus 
Dorneus, "De ge- 
nealogia mineral- 
ium", 1568, in: 
Theatrum 
chemicum, 1602) 

Miscellanea 
d'Alchimia, Italy, 
I5th Century 


Opus Magnum: Philosophical tree 


307 


306 


Opus Magnum: Philosophical tree 







Philosophical 

tree 


Theterm 'Azoth' is 
an arcane Paracel- 
sian name for mer- 
cury, a combina- 
tion of the first 
and last letters of 
the Latin, the 
Greek and the 
Hebrewalpha- 
bets. The tree here 
is being used to 
demonstratethat 
Azoth refers to 
both the begin- 
ning of the Work, 
the mercurial root- 
powers, and also 
the upmost point, 
the philosophers' 
mercury, the all- 
healing elixir. 

Basilius Valentius, 
Azoth , Paris , 7659 




Surrounded by the Symbols of the four 
elements, for the purposes of meditation 
the tree shows the seven phases of the 
Work as an inner development, beginning 
with putrefaction (left: old man - Saturn) 
and ending with rebirth (right: young man 
- lapis). The unicorn symbolizes the penul- 
timate phase of whitening, from which 
sprout the red roses of definitive fixing. 

Musaeum Hermeticum , Frankfurt edition, 
1749 


308 


Opus Macnum: Philosophical tree 



Philosophical 

tree 


"Plant thistree on 
the lapis (...) that 
the birds of the 
sky comeand 
reproduce on its 
branches; it is 
from there that 
wisdom rises." 

(Theatrum 
chemicum) 

Aeneas, draped in 
majestic red, re- 
ceives from his son 
Silvius a branch of 
the tree of life, to 
protect him on his 
journey through 
decay andthe 
purifying fires of 
the underworld. 
The good end is in 
sight, foraccord- 
ing toTrismosin 
the raven's head 
has turned white. 

S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis , 
London , 
i6th Century 


Opus Macnum: Philosophical tree 


309 












Sephiroth 


The Sephiroth tree is at the core of the Cabala, its most influential 
and multi-layered symbol. The Sephiroth are the ten, primal numbers 
which, in combination with the twenty-two letters of the Hebrew 
alphabet, represent the plan of creation of all upper and lower 
things. They are the ten names, attributes or powers of God, and 
form a pulsating organism called the "mystical face of God" or the 
"body of the universe". It Stands on the three pillars of mercy (right), 
severity (left) and central balance. The central pillar forms the spine 
through which the divine dew flows down into the lower womb. In 
creation only the effects of the seven lower Sephiroth are visible, the 
upper triad works outside time and beyond understanding. In the 
System of the four worlds it corresponds to the divine light-world 
(aziluth), which is separated by a veil from the two lower triads of the 
throne-world (beriah) and“the world of angels (yezirah). The lowest 
Sephira, Malchut, is identified with Assia, the spiritual prototype of 
the material world. 

1 Kether supreme crown, initial will 

2 Chochma wisdom, seed of all things 

3 Bina intelligence, upper matrix 

4 Chessed love, mercy, goodness 

5 Gebura severity, punitive power 

6 Tiphereth generosity, splendour, 
beauty 

7 Nezach constant endurance, victory 

8 Hod magnificence, majesty 

g Jesod ground of all procreative 
powers 

i o Malkuth kingdom, the dwelling of 
God in creation 



3io 


Opus Macnum: Sephiroth 


Sephiroth 



After the expul- 
sion of the Jews 
from Spain in 
I4g2, the charis- 
matic Isaac Luria 
founded a new in¬ 
fluential centre of 
Cabalistic exegesis 
at Safed in Upper 
Galilee. His mysti- 
cism was charac- 
terized by the 
queston of the ori¬ 
gin of evil. Accord- 
ing to one doc- 
trine of the Zohar, 
evil arose from an 
eruption of the 
Sephira of "sever¬ 
ity“ (5)* vvhen it 
was separated by 
a blockageof the 
intermediary 
channel from the 
mitigating influ- 
ence of divine love 
(4). For Luria, this 
was caused by a 
cosmic fracture 
and bythe fall of 
the lower Sephi¬ 
roth, unable to 
bearthe Penetra¬ 
tion of the upper 
stream of light in 
primal times. The 
spiritual light is 
nowscattered in 
matter and can 
only be led back 
to the desolate 
divine organism 
by good deeds 
on the part of the 
individual. 

Sephiroth tree after 
Isaac Luria , 
Amsterdam , 7708 


Opus Macnum: Sephiroth 


311 




Sephiroth 



The Sephiroth 
form a holistic Sys¬ 
tem in which the 
whole propagates 
and reflects itself 
infinitely into its 
tiniest particles. 

In the Kabbala de- 
nudata of the 
Christian theolo- 
gian and poet 
Christian Knorr 
von Rosenroth 
(1636-1689) pub- 
lished in Sulzbach, 
Germany, in 1677, a 
broader, non- 
Jewish public had 
its first access to a 
collecton of uncor- 
rupted Cabalistic 
texts. It contains, 
amongst other 
things, a partial 
Latin translation 
of the Zoharand a 
text by Luria. 
Rosenroth was in 
close contact with 
the English 
acolytes of Böhme 
and the Amster¬ 
dam circle around 
Gichtei. 

C. Knorr von Rosen¬ 
roth , Kabbala de- 
nudata, Sulzbach , 

7 684 



313 


























Sephiroth 


The honeycomb- 
like links depicted 
here represent 
new formations 
and restructurings 
of the tree after 
the fracture of the 
lower Sephiroth. 
Luria called the 
configurations 
"Parzufim", faces 
of the deity. 

At the very top 
(No. 52), "the 
forbearing one" 
(Kether), thrones 
above "Father" 
(Chochma, 55-65) 
and "Mother" 
(Bina, 66-77). The 
lower Sephiroth 
are assembled into 
the form of the 
"impatient one". 
138-149 is his mys- 
tical bride Rachel, 
the renewed 
Sephira Malchut. 

C. Knorr von Rosen- 
roth, Kabbala 
denudata, 

Sulzbach, 1684 



>s o 


314 


Opus Magnum: Sephiroth 


Sephiroth 


s j\y ptfiP * D * 1 


irny 


is tm 


"jiiöotVIK 'Ji?m '• "3ipV7 


toini pv KvW 3 

pjni tos^^vu 

liAnj 

trat« 

Ibn sm nbn yan -0 > 

MW 13»nv aitr 5 

700 lrjiwuna** n 

ö*sbt 6 131 d* /nSntxia *]'Wi ü 
ny kvi: tu??’*» .nxw f rti ; 

mi bhh3t6 lünij 

mwhi iwwHMPKa; 

MjJJl" bl? 'WM* 





]" 9 JK WJ 




The ten Sephiroth 
not only form the 
cosmic body of the 
first man, Adam 
Cadmon, with the 
three upper brain- 
chambers and the 
seven limbs, but, 
according tothe 
teaching of Isaac 
Luria, the indi¬ 
vidual Sephiroth 
are also reflections 
of his mystical 
face» each stress- 
ing a particular 
aspect. The upper¬ 
most Sephira, 
Kether, is called 
"the forbearing 
one" or"sainted 
old age" or"star 
of the universe". 
On him depends 
thelife of all 
things, according 
to the Zohar, and 
from the curve of 
his skull, dew 
flows incessantly 
down onto the 
lower heaven: the 
nectar of the 
Rosicrucians, the 
philosophers* 
mercury. 

C. Knorr von 
Rosenroth, Kabbala 
denudata, 

Sulzbach, 1684 


Opus Magnum: Sephiroth 


315 




Sephiroth 


Sephiroth 


According to the 
law of the 
Pythagorean 
Tetractys, the four 
seeds of the ar- 
canenameof God 
unfold on ten 
levels. "The world 
was created in ten 
words" (Zohar). In 
combination with 
the twenty-two 
letters, the Chan¬ 
nels through 
whichthedivine 
power circulates, 
the diagram of the 
Sephiroth encom- 
passes all possibil- 
ities and all com- 
binations of the 
world of elements. 

Manuscript, 

Salonica 



J il L ^ 

lei 


»MV 








psi 

v iP™' 


l’*?' nj» Dcr=> 



The Sephiroth dia- 
gram as a ground 
plan of theTemple 
of Solomon, with 
Malchut as the 
entrance and two 
altars for sacrifice 
by fireinthe fore- 
court. Tiphereth is 
the Position of the 
devotional altar in 
the sanctuary, in 
which, on the left, 
are the table with 
the twelve loaves 
(the twelve tribes 
of Israel, as an 
earthly illustration 
of the Zodiac)and 
on the right, the 
seven-branched 
candelabra. Be- 
hind it, closed off 
by a curtain: the 
holyof hohes with 
the Ark of the 
Covenant and the 
two tablets with 
the Law. Above it 
sits the Shechina, 
theglory of God in 
the world. Kircher 
assigned tothe 
seven lower Sephi¬ 
roth the sequence 
of planets from 
Saturn-Gebura 
(Pechad)to Moon- 
Malkuth. 

A. Kircher; Oedipus 
Aegyptiacus , Rome, 

1653 


316 


Opus Magnum: Sephiroth 


Opus Magnum: Sephiroth 


317 



Sephiroth 


Sephiroth 


Rene Zuber teils of 
the preparation 
for a Russian 
Christmas party 
in the Paris 
apartment of 
M. Gurdjieff: 

"I had almost com- 
pleted my task 
when Gurdjieff 
camein(...)and, 
approaching the 
tree, gave me a 
sign to indicate 
that the pine-tree 
had to be fastened 
tothe ceiling of 
the room (...) 'But 
(...) Monsieur (...), 
onthe hook up 
there? With the 
tip pointing down- 
wards and the 
roots upwards?' 
That was exactly 
what he wanted. 
There was nothing 
for me to do but to 
relieve the pine 
tree of its decora- 
tions, climbona 
stool and fasten it 
after a fashion to 
the ceiling with 
its roots pointing 
upwards." 

(Wer sind Sie, Herr 
Gurdjieff ?, Basle, 
1981) 

R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi, Vol. II, 
Frankfurt, 1621 




PORTAELVCI 


Hfccft porta Tctragrämaton lufti inrrabflt pom. 

ie*3z m 


Title picture for 
the Portae Lucis 
(Gates of Light), a 
partial translation, 
published in Augs¬ 
burg in 1516, of the 
'Shaare ora' of 
Joseph Gikatilla, a 
Spanish Cabbalist 
ofthelate I3th 
Century. Scholem 
believed that his 
work had an influ- 
ence on the author 
of the Zohar, 

Moses de Leon. 

According to 
Gikatilla, the Fall 
of Adam destroyed 
the smooth rela- 
tionship between 
the upper and the 
lower Sephiroth, 
andthus de¬ 
stroyed the unity 
of heaven and 
earth. 

Paulus Ricius, 

Portae Lucis, 
Augsburg, 1516 


318 


Opus Magnum: Sephiroth 


Opus Magnum: Sephiroth 


319 












Sephiroth 


"That which comes 
from the tree of 
knowledge," the 
Zohar has it, 

"bears duality 
within itself". The 
fruits of love and 
anger, of light and 
darkness, of etern- 
ity and time. 


Although Adam 
decided in favour 
of the dark fruit 
of mortality, he 
has the freedom to 
choose,forthe 
world of elements 
consists of both 
root-forces, of the 
light and the dark. 


The seven hands 
are Böhme's 
"source spirits", 
the lower aspects 
of the Sephiroth 
tree. The central 
sun is Böhme's di- 
viding fire, and 
corresponds to the 
SephiraTiphereth, 
identified by the 
Christian inter- 
preters of the 
Cabbala with 
Christ as the 
"heart of heaven". 


*JA V 


V. Weigel, Studium 
universale, 
Frankfurt, 1698 


Opus Magnum: Sephiroth 









Sephiroth 


The Opus mago-cabalisticum of the director of a mine, Georg von 
Welling (1655-1725), who was later employed as an alchemist at the 
court in Karlsruhe, enjoyed great popularity in the circles of the late 
i8th-century Rosicrucians, and even influenced the Russian Free- 
masons. For Welling, the true Cabala was "a spiritual, Christian 
Science". But the Jewish Cabala was nothing but a misuse of divine 

names. "It was from this 
work ... that Goethe acquired 
his empty and vague concept 
of the Cabala, which he then 
passed on", wrote Scholem. 
(Gershom Scholem, Alchemie 
und Kabbala, Frankfurt, 1994 ) 
Düring his hermetic phase, 
the poet devoted a great deal 
of effort to an understanding 
of Welling's book, marking 
the "obscure references, 
where the author points from 
one place to the other" with 
marginal notes. "But even then 
the book remained obscure 
and incomprehensible 
enough." (Goethe, Dichtung 
und Wahrheit) 

A few years after reading 
this book, Goethe recon- 
structed Welling's imagined 

world as a Lucifer-Gnosis of his own in his unfinished drama, 
Prometheus (1773). Later, this would be taken up by Rudolf Steiner 
and anthroposophy. 



322 


Opus Magnum: Sephiroth 


Sephiroth 



Ni. 5+ 


OjJUf 771 a y. Cab- U. 1 


From the divine throne-world with the 
"Seven Great Spirits of Revelation" the di¬ 
vine light pours through Sachariel, the 
spirit of Jupiter, creating the spirit world 
as the archetype of "our solar System in its 
most perfect state". 

"BCDE is the world of the son of the red 
dawn (Lucifer) (...) to which shone all the 


rays of the light of divine majesty." The 
third world consists of the 12 choirs of the 
angelic hosts. Through his arrogance, Luci¬ 
fer causes "the confusion of his wonderful 
spirit-world with the earthly one". 

Cregorius Anglus Sallwigt (pseudonym ofvon 
Welling), Opus mago-cabalisticum , Frankfurt, 

1719 


Opus Magnum: Sephiroth 


323 





































Sephiroth 



Like Paracelsus, Welling distinguished 

between a dark and a light fire, and like 

Böhme he believed in a celestial and an 

earthly sulphur. Earthly sulphur is a rever- 

sal of the upper light. He derived the sign 

of lovely sulphur, the "light of joy", from 

the triangle of the trinity (Fig. i) and the 

cross of the "miraculous salt". The in- 

verted sign of the grim sulphur of "slimy 

saltiness" was a combination of the signs 

for earth (Fig. 2) and vitriol (Fig. 3). 


The Copernican System (Fig. 7) is modified 
in the course of the Apocalypse, when 

Heaven and the elements will be de- 
stroyed by fire. The earth will fall into the 

centre E, and be divided into the dark 

"fiery mire" and the "sweet light of joy". 

Georg von Welling, Opus mago-cabalis- 
ticum, Frankfurt, and Leipzig, 1760 




Sephiroth 



Welling, influenc- 
ed by Paracelsus, 
Agrippa and 
Böhme, called the 
imagination a 
"radiation of the 
emotions" which 
grasps the sub- 
stance of visible 
and invisible Ob¬ 
jects and incorp- 
orates them within 
the soul. "Every 
one of us is drawn 
by the rays of his 
imagination, as by 
a powerful mag* 
net, towards his 
own death, the 
way to which he 
has imagined 
during his life." 
Between the two 
poles of light and 
night, as lines of 
magneticfields, 
liethe "squadrons 
of joy and grief" in 
which the soul 
dwells after death. 

Georg von Welling, 
Opus mago-caba- 
listicum, Frankfurt, 
and Leipzig, 1760 


Opus Magnum: Sephiroth 


325 
































Sephiroth 



The main key to the 'Opus-mago': the in- of the spirit-world. This was created from 

comprehensible unground (No. i) emerges fiery water, which, after his Fall, became 

from itself and reveals itself in the trinity a thick salty, sulphurous water, the 
(No. 2). "In praise of his incomprehensible Tohuwabohu (No. 4). As an act of "divine 
majesty" (Lit. A) he creates the spirit- generosity" our solar System was sepa- 

world (Lit. B). The first emanation from the rated from this dark chaos. 

Void is the fiery water "Eshmayim", whose 

glyph is a combination of the signs of the Georg von Welling, Opus mago-cabalis- 

Tria Prima (Lit. C). Lucifer was the centre ticum, Frankfurt, and Leipzig, 1760 


326 


Opus Magnum: Sephiroth 




Sephiroth 


2>if unrrfcfjaf 
uni> unfrforfdjlidjc 





fimr ©Diflfrit 

1‘rimum Mobile. 


Wi(mß‘ 

mkStj 




JDat rtfthüffmf Qf 

Pnmum ^ 

Fm 

Unb brr ©ri|l 0ottrt 


Unb brr ©iifl Ooirr« f^wrbnrottfbrmlBaff». | 

'* - * ”',:r ~ 

©.« *.» «n.nf*«« iu /// j ö l ü ,/rR v t« ».«tJ.«™ .<a« 

4mfliht. •>"*>. ■«*•(«. i_ / Lr t 1 * Fcurr /V. l -, Feuer ' * ~ \ l) ir \ Qinftiuy. 

MtaH - ;Qo' r | FIGURA/ JTT NfAßALISTICA 

""*■£*.. f*l&{ ~ 


\>\ \ 


1 01 ?*« 



"LKW/ 


er nuty feint Hefa 
bcflJiiqt niil lüuo. 
(iimilin. 





Diagram of the 
Gold- and Rosicru- 


The wheel of na- 
ture, which stems 
from the seeds of 
all planets and 
metals, the mobile 
andtemporal 
reflection of the 
eternal primum 
mobile of the di¬ 
vine trinity. From 
this emerged Ja¬ 
cob Böhme's ele- 
mental 'wheel of 
anguish', bounded 
on the outside by 
the Zodiac. 

Geheime Figuren 
der Rosenkreuzer, 
Altona, 1785 


Opus Magnum: Sephiroth 


327 





Sephiroth 


The Sephiroth dia- 
gram was adapted 
by the i8th-cen- 
tury Gold and 
Rosicrucians, to 
represent the 
Opus Magnum in a 
universal context. 

A precise Interpre¬ 
tation of thisfig- 
ure will only occur 
when "2,800 parts 
are described in a 
com of wheat" 
and Elias Artista 
reveals himself. 

Geheime Figuren 
der Rosenkreuzer , 
Altona , 1785 


Figura Divina Thcofoph. Cabalift. ncc non Magica 

Philofoph. 6c Chymica. 

Dir rtuigr 0onnc in i&rrr g6ttli$rn Statut unb Ätdfrm. 

Deus Triunus cxivit cx ^ enrro ' n Centrum 


natfe bn Philofophia 




Cor leih unb ni<$t trneAri. 


Crtigc unfirf)(6arc £lmm ' 


liftyt JDrrpfolttflfeif. 


3>i4l* nwltrr» 10, ni4(* 

»fttrti Mt tu4 (ff«, Ä 

firfjiborf 3rbi 

ftw bii» Kttnrt KU ACM 

Deus & Natur» 

O kontra bu 6 i(l «in twfjr&af» 

Natura atque res omnes 

Dir rrfrfjQfffiif 0onnr in VrT 1 


fdjr jT). JDrfbfolttghtf. 

t bu.d» (ft« 1 «tfr« 4 «n 

ciunt Iruftra. 

» unb 0lctd)ni& bcmcJ ©ollti. 

ex Ccntro in Centrum. 

©ufung unb Gigmf^oft. 


Du o 6 fr*re|T« tw»r S » ( ,t« 

Jfli 

Drtm»lnr/^i*lif<^f Htf(i: £» V 
b<n| unt>gci(ili<^«r < paDJ|t 


|)^S§^ 4 M 6 © 7 ^ 9 ) I 


< Di« unter - flnnr tu^rub I 
Irtbl.dDtlt in ibttmCentral 


fyifrr C»nn UU «UfW 
un» <B*«»>nf 4 «in. Mf»» 
«u«4)fn 0(r« «»k «U(rt fl«. 


Philofophorum ^THIMIA 


W««.M 14 kfffai «141 
[4ut»if »•«. Ilr1«4 I# kn 
e.fN|lrn Cm». 


jte o 


F.iplicutio rlrk («lfm k« 
Kl >|oo l^fUi I« riuim 
«Infmltniln» Wf 4 llikf« 


328 


Opus Macnum: Sephiroth 


Ab uno 



"The four ele- 
ments yield up (...) 
a sperm or semen 
(Azoth: quintes- 
sence), which is 
cast into the 
centre of the 
earth, where it is 
transformed 

The "Tree of Pan- 
sophia" was the 
name thatthe 
Rosicrucian Daniel 
Mögling from 
Constance (alias 
Theophilius 
Schweighart) gave 
to his diagram, in 
which the har- 
monic connection 
of microcosm and 
macrocosm is to 
be contemplated: 
Omnia ab uno 
(Everything from 
the One), Omnia ad 
unum (Everything 
tothe One): 
"Seriously con- 
template nature, 
andthentheele- 
ments (...) therein 
you will finally 
rediscover your- 
self, from which 
you then ascend to 
God Almighty". 

Theophilius 
Schweig hart, 
Speculum 
sophicum Rhodo- 
stauroticum, 1604 


Opus Macnum: Ab uno 


329 



O "The circle and 
the point: the 
circle is the Symbol 
of eternity. The 
point is the Symbol 
of the concentra- 
tion of time in the 
moment. Sun = 
gold = connection 
between circle 
(eternity) and 
point (concentra- 
tion), istime in 
eternity» is the 
symbol of the 
unity of macro- 
and microcosm." 
(From the Tabula 
Chaeremonis, i 8 th 
Century) 

Philotheus, 

Symbola Christiana, 
Frankfurt, 1677 


"The circumcircle 
is in the point, in 
theseed lies the 
fruit, God in the 
world; the intelli¬ 
gent one will 
seek him within 
it." (Daniel von 
Czepko, writing 
underthe name of 
Angelus Silesius, 
1605-1660) 

Ein schön nützlich 
Büchlein und 
Underweisung der 
Kunst des Messens, 
Nuremberg, i6th 
Century 



constant prayer in the Oratorium (left), and 
through unstinting work in the laborat- 
orium (right), which rests on the two 
pillars of experience and reason. The oven 
in the foreground admonishes us to 
patience ('Hasten slowly'), and the gifts 
on the table remind us that sacred music 
and harmony are supposed to accompany 
and define the Work. 


Heinrich Khunrath's "Whole circle-round 
(...) stage of eternal wisdom" is filled with 
the spiritual salt of wisdom, the "Tartarus 
Mundi" or "central salt-point of the great 
building of the whole world" into which all 
the spatial lines of Hans Vredeman de 
Vries' perspectival construction vanish. 


"Awake in sleep" Stands above the en- 
trance, for "We are the stuff that dreams 
are made on" (Shakespeare, The Tempest). 
We can awake from this state through 


Heinrich Khunrath, Amphitheatrum 
sapientiae aeternae, 1602 


Opus Macnum: Ab uno 















































Ab uno 


Ab uno 



For the Paracelsian doctor Heinrich Khun- 
rath (1560-1605) the correct knowledge of 
art is "a breath from God" by communica- 
tion with the heavenly hierarchies. Thus, 
his works. which were highly respected in 
Rosicrucian circles. consisted largely of 
grandiose conjurations and curses. Khun- 
rath is supposed to have practised at the 
court of Rudolf II in Prague with Oswald 
Croll and Michael Maier, and he was also in 
contact with the English astrologer John 
Dee. The influence of Dee's Monas Hiero- 
glyphica (1564), an interpretation of the 
Pythagorean Tetractys seen from the per¬ 
spective of magic is apparent in the illus- 


tration above. The son of the great world, 
the lapis, is likened to Christ as the son of 
the microcosm. Both arise aftertorture 
and death in an indestructible heavenly 
body, which now has the power to release 
all other bodies from their transitory, ele- 
mental quadrinity. The perfect harmony of 
the trinity of body-soul-spirit brings sex¬ 
ual duality (the Rebis in the centre) into 
primal unity, the Monas. How that is to be 
achieved is written on the two arms of the 
Rebis: Ora et labora. 

Heinrich Khunrath , Amphitheatrum 
sapientiae aeternae, 1602 



The Holy Scrip- 
tures and prayer 
are the source for 
andthefounda- 
tion of the Broth- 
erhood of the 
Rosicrucians. 

These are the ac- 
tual Work (Ergon). 
In comparison, the 
preparation of 
the lapis, which is 
maturing here in 
the womb-retort 
of Natura, can 
only be considered 
as a subsidiary 
Work (Parergon). 
Anyone who 
thinks otherwise, 
according to 
Schweighart, 
would be better 
off hanging a mill- 
stone around his 
neck and sinking 
into the depths of 
thesea. 

Theophilius 
Schweighart, 
Speculum 
sophicum Rhodo- 
stauroticum, 1604 


Opus Macnum: Ab uno 


333 


332 


Opus Macnum: Ab uno 



the lapis. Here is the throne of "our Mer- 
cury", the dragon, "who marries himself 
and impregnates himself, who gives birth 
on one day and with his poison kills all 
living creatures". [Rosariumphilosophorum, 
Ed. J. Telle, Weinheim, igg2) 


Twenty-one paths lead to the alchemistic 
fortress but only on one, the enthusiastic 
path of the fear of God and of prayer, can 
it be entered. This path alone brings the 
knowledge of the correct source material. 
The other paths represent false concepts 
of godless "argchymists". The seven cor- 
ner-points of the fortress are the seven 
phases which lead to the central rock of 


Heinrich Khunrath , Amphitheatrum 
sapientiae aeternae , 1602 












































Fortress 


Inscription above the emblem: "God is the 
fortress of all who believe in him" 

Inscription beneath the emblem: "We 
trust in God when the flood begins" 

M.J. Ebermeier, Sinnbilder von der 
Hoffnung, Tübingen, 1653 



On the art of warfare and the planning of 
fortifications. 

R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. II, 
Oppenheim, 161g 



336 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 


Fortress 



On the lower 
levels of the five 
elements, atthe 
centre of the 
world on Mount 
Meru, sits the 
Mandala Palace. 
This precious 
palace is divided, 
analogousto man 
as the divine mea- 
sure of all things, 
into the three 
levels of body, lan 
guage and spirit, 
to which, in this 
Mandala ofthe 
Time-Wheel, pre- 
cisely 722 Tibetan 
deities are as- 


Kalachakra Man¬ 
dala, gouache, 
Tibet, i8th Century 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 


337 



















Fortress 


"For in brain and heart and loins/ Gates ergy. At the centre are his smithy and his 

open behind Satan's seat to the city of forges. beside them his wife's spinning* 

Golgonooza/ Which is the spiritual four- wheel and the gate of Luban, symbols of 

fold London in the loins of Albion." Such the womb and the vagina. The city must 
are the topographical directions in William constantly be recreated by Los as a bul* 
Blake's poems. Golgonooza, a combina- wark against the shadowy three-dimen- 

tion of "Golgotha" (place of the skull", sional world, called "Ulro" or "land of 

"ooze", "nous" and "noose") is the city of etemal death". The four*dimensional 
art and of crafts. In its eastern gate is a Golgonooza is modelled on Jerusalem, 

nest of larks. They are the messengers the place of complete fulfilment and free 

of Los, the personification of Creative en- dom. 



Each gate opens into all the other gates S. Foster Dämon, Map of Golgonooza, 

towards the four compass points, so that A Blake Dictionary, 1965 

all are contained in each. 


338 


Opus Magnum: Fortress 



Vision of the celestial Jerusalem: "(...) 
and her light was like unto a stone most 
precious, even like a jasper stone, clear as 
crystal, and she had a wall, great and high, 
and twelve gates, at which were twelve 
angels, and on the gates were inscribed 
the names of the twelve tribes of Israel. 
And the wall of the city had twelve foun- 
dation-stones, and on them the names of 
the twelve apostles of the Lamb. (...) I saw 


no temple in the city; for its temple was 
the sovereign Lord God and the Lambs. 
And the city had no need of the sun, 
neither of the moon, to shine upon it: for 
the glory of God gave it light, and its lamp 
was the Lamb." (Revelation 21,11-12,14, 
22-23) 


Welislaw Bible, Prague, I4th Century 













Fortress 



The illustration in Athanasius Kircher's 
Arithmologia (Rome, 1665) is a copy of the 
map of Jerusalem by Carolus Bovillus 
(Opera, Paris, 1510). The emphasis on the 
number twelve in the description of the 
Celestial City in the book of Revelation 
has often led to comparisons with the 
Zodiac. 


Forthe famous I5th-century alchemist 
George Ripley, Jerusalem was an image of 
the Opus Magnum, whose twelve gates 
must be passed through analogous to the 
twelve phases of the work. 

A. Kircher, Arithmologia, Rome, 1665 


340 


Opus Magnum: Fortress 


Fortress 


l. LlU_I_ 1_LLLLL 
I ■LLLBLLLBLL 
l .LLLLLLLLLLL 
l_LBLL_LLLLB 
I .LLl_LLL.LL.LLL 
L L 

L _LL_LLBiLLLLL 
i_1_l_I_L_LLL 

elllbl! - 


lLllLllillllllllllllllll 

LLLLLLLLl.LliLLLLLLLUL.LI_L! 


LBLLLLLLLLLLLL 
LLLLLLLLLLLL 


ILLLLL 
IBLLL 

t±abnni 

lLU. 


LULiJ 



1 .LLLLLLLLLLLL 

lblllblllblc 


ILLLLL 


LLLLLLLL 
ü 


LBLCrtLhiztilLC 

ILLLLLLLLLlLLL. 


.lllbllllllul. 

LLLLLLLLLLLLLL 

[[[LLLLLLLLSZLLL 


LLLLLLLL 


LH 

CLLLLLCCLCl_LLLBL 

LLLLLLLLLLLH_LLBL 
LLLLLLLLLLl LU 
.LLLLLLLLLLL BLL 
__LLLLLLLLLLLL.—I—LI 

I SW WI' 




_SLLLL 

ILLLLLLLl 
LLLLLBLl 

mm*- 

"LLLLLBLLLLLL_ 

.: B ±dküiML 

.llllll_lll_uuM- 

LLLLLLLI_LLL 


As in Blake's poems, in the writings of his 
Contemporary, Richard Brothers, demo- 
cratic convictions mingle with Biblical 
tradition and the author's own visionary 
experience. He identified the fallen 
Jerusalem with the London of his own time 
and prophesied its destruction, if the war 
of the monarchistalliance against repub- 
lican France was successful. The new 


Jerusalem would not originate in Heaven, 
but would arise in Contemporary Palestine. 
Brothers based his detailed map of the 
city on the descriptions of the prophet 
Ezekiel. 

Engraving by Wilson Lowry, in: 

R. Brothers, A Description of Jerusalem, 

1801 


Opus Magnum: Fortress 


341 















































































































































^fLRR4 


Fortress 


ln his treatise 'circulus quadratus' (1616), points of the compass. The lapis, which 
Michael Maier compared the Celestial connects them all, thus also symbolizes 

Jerusalem with the lapis as a golden the 'omphalos', the navel of the world. 

fortress, a circle divided into the pairs of 

opposites of the Aristotelian elements Michael Maier, De circulo physico Quadrato, 

and qualities. These were often, and in the Oppenheim, 1616 
most diverse ways, linked to the four 



"The Celestial Jerusalem is an etemally red-golden transparent antimony glass, 

clarified, subtle, penetrating, fixed corpse like stone: this is the new heaven and the 
that can penetrate and perfect all other new earth, in which we will all live to- 

bodies." [Nodus sophicus enodatus, Frank- gether." 
furt, 163g) 

(Valentin Weigel, Azoth & Ignis, Amster- 
"The new Jerusalem will forever remain a dam edition, 1787) 


ierusal: 

"V" • /<•.».> 


u □ 


,o 


TsI-x 

O ■ c 

BABEL 


Diagram by 
Böhme's pupil 
Abraham von 
Franckenberg 
( 1593 - 1652 ): 


Inthefireof the 
Last Judgment (1) 
the night divides 
the night of Babel 
from the light of 
Jerusalem. 


Abraham von 
Franckenberg, 
Raphael oder 
Arzt-Engel, 1639 


342 


Opus Magnum: Fortress 


Fortress 



ln Welling s interpretation of "Revela- 
tions", after the Day of Judgment Christ 
will "return this whole solar System to its 
original form, as it was before the Fall of 
Lucifer". He will bring forth a new world 
with the New Jerusalem "in the counter- 
image of the archetypal City of God". It 
was created in the circle of the globe after 
the measure of man as made in the image 
of God. 


"Look upon Fig. 10 not with fleshly but 
with spiritual, emotional eyes." Along the 
edges of the cubic surface are the names 
of the twelve tribes of Israel. It is made 
of miraculously delicate, gold-glass, and is 
radiated by the pure light of God. 

Ceorg von Welling, Opus mago-cabalis- 
ticum, Frankfurt, and Leipzig, 1760 


Opus Magnum: Fortress 


343 







Fortress 


A shipwrecked man in search of the'Land 
of Peace' lands on the island of Caphar 
Salama, on which there rises the ideal city 
of Christianopolis, which is laid out in 
the shape of a star around the innermost 
temple, on the model of Campanella's 
'Civitas solis' (1612). Life and education 
here are aimed, according to Rosicrucian 
ideals, at the harmonic connection of 
Christian tradition and universal know- 
ledge. In school the Cabala is taught as the 
highest form of geometry, theosophy as 
the highest form of the humanities, as well 
as Pythagorean harmonic theory and as- 
trology. The Swabian theologian Valentin 


Andreae (1586-1654) is also thought to be 
co-author of the pamphlets of the Rosicru 
cian Brotherhood published a few years 
earlier, although he was quick to distance 
himself from these, probably for fear of 
coming under suspicion of heresy. After 
the Thirty Years' War, he put into effect 
the ideals of the Brotherhood: active 
brotherly love and the reform of church, 
state and society, as reorganizer of the 
Württemberg educational System and the 
regional Lutheran church. 

J. Valentin Andreae , Reipublicae Christia- 
nopolitanae descriptio, Strasbourg , 161g 



344 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 


Fortress 



With his description of the floating island 
of Laputa, driven by a group of lunatic sci- 
entists with a time-wheel magnetism, 
Jonathan Swift, in his 1726 novel Culliver's 
Travels parodied the Royal Society. This 
oldest British academy for the sponsorship 
of Science was founded in 1660 on the 


Rosicrucian idea of an "invisible College'' 
encouraging the highest educational 
ideals. 

Jonathan Swift , Culliver's Travels , Leipzig 
edition, c. 7970 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 


345 


















































WxMtBigm 


m 




Beginning in 1895. 
Hugo Hoeppner 
(i868-ig48) 
designed a number 
of theosophical 
devotional 
temples in which 
Wagnerian drama 
is combined with 
the Masoniccult 
of initiation. "Our 
future temples will 
be wonderful 
representations of 
unified emotional 
experiences", he 
wrote in a 1912 
essay. Hoeppner 
was well-known, 
underthe name 
of Fidus, for his 
Jugendstil draw- 
ings, in which he 
evoked the Nordic 
light-man and 
nudism. In 1932 he 
joined the Nazi 
party, pleased 
that his ideas had 
fallen on fertile 
ground there. 


Fidus, Tempel der 
Erde, 1895,10: 

K. Jellinek, Das 
Weltengeheimnis, 
Stuttgart, 1921 


iNAlle der Grgebung 




ftVtft €Wn* 


Opus Magnum: Fortress 


[Sfc.knsrJ 

ra 

IrafeXi. -d 

1 j 


Fortress 



Solomon had two 
large copper pil- 
lars built in front 
of the entrance 
hall of his temple. 
The right-hand 
pillarhe called 
Jachin, the left 
Boas (1 Kings 7, 
15-23). They rep- 
resent two dual 
principles in the 
Great Work and 
are the funda¬ 
mental pillars of 
humanity. 

According to i 
Kings 6 , 5-8, one 
climbed a winding 
stair to the 
temple, containing 
the choirand 
the Ark of the 
Covenant. 

The ripe ear of 
corn, the Symbol 
of the journeyman 
degree, is hidden 
behind the 
column. 

Masonic Second 
Degree Board, 
England, c. 1780 


Opus Magnum: Fortress 


347 



















Fortress 


The templeis said 
to have been 
"built upon the 
words of the Bible 
from hewn stone 
in such a way that 
no disturbing 
sound, notool of 
iron could be 
heard. The stones 
(the developed 
Personalities) are 
supposed to inter- 
sect in such a way 
thatthey hold 
without further 
connection (...). 
Solomon's temple 
is the model which 
allows all other 
Symbols to evolve 
from it, to reas- 
semblethem in a 
unit. Forthis 
reason the Free- 
mason calls his 
activity construc- 
tion-work. The 
final goal is the 
temple of human* 
ity in honourof 
the omnipotent 
architect of all 
the worlds 
(Lennhoff and Pos- 
ner, Internationales 
Freimaurerlexikon, 
Graz, ig65) 

i8th-century work- 
carpet, engraving 



348 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 


Fortress 



Before the three journeymen can deal him 
the final death-blow, the temple architect 
manages to throw the golden triangle with 
the watchword, which he always wore on 
his ehest, into a deep shaft. 

The candidates of the 'Royal Arch', the 
most important high-degree System of the 
Anglo-Saxon countries, are prepared in 
stages in search of this triangle with the 
unpronounceable name of God. It is hid- 


den beside the temple plans in the rubble 
of the subterranean vault raised on nine 
arches, which rise so high that they are not 
immersed by the waters of the flood. 

A cubical stone is embedded in the ninth 
arch, as a symbol of the highest moral 
power. It alone can provide access to the 
subterranean holiness. 

High-degree Illustration: 'Le Royalle Arches', 
c.1775 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 


349 


e/K »v«)- 







































































Fortress 


"Bythe fruits shall 
ye know the 
roots." 

"Intheleaves of 
gardens of this 
kind, a golden 
crown grows for 
those that merit it 
(...). Becausethe 
dooris closed, 
no-one can enter 
the house unless 
he has the key, 
while God guides 
the star." 

Hermetischer 
Philosophus oder 
Hauptschlüssel, 
Vienna, 1709 




The Arabic alchemist Umail at-Tamimi 
(c. goo-g6o), known as Senior Zadith, 
entering the "Treasure-house of Wisdom", 
the lapis. The four gates of the four ele- 
ments must all simultaneously "be opened 
with four keys until the whole house is 
filled with light". 

Aurora consurgens, late I4th Century 


350 


Opus Magnum: Fortress 


Fortress 



"Whosoever 
wishes to enter 
the Philosophical 
Rose-Garden with- 
out the key is like 
a man who wishes 
to walk without 
feet." 


The gate is bolted three times according 
to the three sections of the Work. The 
points on the arch indicate that three 
different fires must rule within. They are 
personified in the lower Muses, sitting at 
the top right on Parnassus: "In vain you 
try to walk upon this high mountain, 
when you can barely stand on one leg on a 
level path". To get the elixirs of the white 


and red roses, what is required above all is 
the right source material. This rose wears 
a green dress, says Maier. The wise man 
plucks it without being pricked, while 
thieves "have nothing but pain from it". 

Michael Maier, Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


Opus Magnum: Fortress 


351 



























































Fortress 


Access to the 
"mountain of the 
philosophers" is 
blocked by a wall 
of false, sophisti- 
cal doctrines. The 
old man atthe 
entrance isthe 
saturnine Anti¬ 
mon, here called 
"the father of 
metals". The al- 
chemists identi- 
fied this "old pro- 
tector" with the 
Bethlehem land- 
lord Boas, David's 
great-grandfather. 
Above him, the 
Arabaichemist Se¬ 
nior Zadith plants 
the sun and moon 
tree, from which 
the lapis emerges. 
In the 'Aurora 
consurgens' there 
is also a passage 
leading back to 
Senior Zadith, in 
which the lapis is 
compared with a 
house builton a 
strong rock. Who- 
ever opens it will 
find within the 
source of eternal 
youth. 

Geheime Figuren 
der Rosenkreuzer, 
Altona, 1785 




IL*«' 




n ? j|} «fsi 


352 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 



The Fama Fraternitatis is the first pamphlet 
of an invisible brotherhood of the Rosy 
Cross published in 1614 by the circle of 
Tübingen students around Valentin An- 
dreae. Their "youthful pranks and fool- 
ery", as Andreae later called them, had un- 
expected consequences. Shady charlatans 
everywhere declared their desire to join 
this wonderful College. Scholars like Rene 
Descartes and Robert Fludd tried to make 
contact, but in vain. "Our building (...) 


shall remain inaccessible to the godless 
world," as the Fama has it. 

Schweighart advises the searcher to watch 
patiently like Noah's doves, to hope 
quietly in Cod and to pray tirelessly. Then 
a brother will announce himself, forthey 
are able to read thoughts. 

T. Schweighart, Speculum sophicum 
Rhodo-stauroticum, 1604 


Opus Macnum: Fortress 


353 








































Fortress 


Fortress 


Shortly after he 
wrote his Aurora in 
1613, Böhme was 
denounced as a 
fanatic by dog- 
matic Lutherans, 
and after a brief 
spell in prison he 
was placed under 
a writing Prohibi¬ 
tion by the magis- 
trate of the town 
of Görlitz. His 
assembled advers- 
aries, devotees of 
the "historic, lit¬ 
eral faith" and the 
"walled church" 
areshown hereon 
the title page of 
his Schutz reden 
as the Beast of 
the Apocalypse, 
destroyed, like the 
basilisk, by its own 
reflection. 

J. Böhme, 

Theosophische 

Wercke, 

Amsterdam, 1682 



ywv 


RovEK.B.18 < 


WMm- 



Noah's dove with 
the olive branch, a 
messenger pigeon 
and abovethem 
the dove of the 
Holy Ghost "with 
twenty-four 
pentecostal 
flames orfiery 
tongues ofthe 
spirits of the let- 
ter. Three doves, 
then, indicating 
thethreefold 
spirit 1. of God 
2. of nature 3, of 
art". (G. Gichtei) 

J. Böhme, 

Theosophische 

Wercke, 

Amsterdam, 1682 


354 


Opus Magnum: Fortress 


Opus Magnum: Fortress 


355 




Animal riddles 


Even the ancient Egyptians "commonly dealt with the Chymical 
Mysteries through the figures of the animals: thus the red Lion 
means: the sun, gold; the toad, the raven: putrefaction; the dove, 
the eagle, the snake, the green lion: the Luna philosophorum, their 
Mercury; with the wolf antimony, with the dragon saltpetre, with 
the snake arsenic and the like are meant. In the understanding of the 
meanings of the animals, the specific properties of the animals in 
question should be considered. Poisonous and volatile things indicate 
material; fixed, earthly things show form. In this way the following 
riddles can thus be understood; the red lion fights with the grey 
wolf, and having defeated him, he will become a magnificent victori- 
ous prince. 

Afterwards, enclose him in a transparent prison, with ten or 
twelve virgin eagles, and entrüst the key of the prison to Vulcan; 
thus the eagles will begin to dispute, and to vanquish the lion, and to 
rip it to shreds which, when it rots, the eagles will try to fly away, 
and escape the stink, and ask Vulcan to open up, and examine all the 
crannies of the prison; but when Vulcan refuses, and all ends of the 
prison are entirely closed, then by the stink from the lion's carrion 
the eagles too will be corrupted, infected and rotted. Hence, a terri- 
ble putrefaction. But while the one's corruption is the other's Cre¬ 
ation, thus many things arise from this twofold carrion: first there 
emerges a Raven, which, while it rots again, vanishes: from which a 
peacock emerges (...): when this perishes, there emerges a Dove, 
which, because the Raven could find no dry place, finds one such, but 
a new one because the previous Earth was corrupted by the Flood, 
but this is the virgin Chalk of the Philosophers. This Dove, not yet 
past all corruption, is slowly transformed into a Phoenix, which 
Vulcan burns, in the Prison itself. Hence, from its ashes there arises 
a new, incorruptible and immortal fruit, by which all sublunary things 
are refreshed. 

You will interpret the significant riddle of these animals in this 
way: purify the gold with Spiessglas (antimony), place it in a glass 
with 10 or 12 parts of the Mercurii Philosophorum, or of the Mercurial 
water of its metals: place the glass in a reasonable heat: thus the 
form of the gold will be defeated by the Mercurial matter, and rot: 
From which a blackness and all manner of colours will be seen. When, 
finally, the putrefaction is over, the Matter will first pass through a 


stage of taking or a greyish colour, and will then tend towards a 
whiteness; if one puts a great heat to it, it will be tinged with a 
lemon-colour, and finally with a red colour, and thus pass from fluid 
to its fixity." (Johann J. Becher, Oedipus chimicus, 1664) 



Animal riddles 


M. Maier, 
Viatorium, 
Oppenheim , 1618 


356 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


357 





Animal riddles 


Animal riddles 


"The philosophers 
generally say that 
two fish should be 
in our sea." The 
sea is the body, 
thetwo fish spirit 
and soul. "Decoct 
these three to- 
gether, to produce 
the greatest sea." 

Lambsprinck, 

De Lapide philo- 
sophico, Frankfurt; 
1625 



"Adeerand a Uni¬ 
com are hidden in 
the forest." The 
forest is the body, 
the unicorn the 
spirit (Sulphur, 
male), the deeris 
the soul (Mercury, 
female). "Blessed 
can we call the 
man who artfully 
can capture and 
tarne them" 

Lambsprinck, 

De Lapide philo- 
sophico, Frankfurt, 
1625 




"A beautiful forest 
in India is found, 
wherein two 
birds together are 
bound. One is 
snow-white (Mer¬ 
cury), the other 
red (Sulphur). 

They bite each 
other until both 
are dead." After 
they have entirely 
devoured one an- 
other, they turn 
first into a dove 
(whitening), then 
into a phoenix 
(reddening). 

D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 



The two opposite 
natures of the 
work are brought 
together by 
lengthy coction. 
"Have but pa- 
tience, your labour 
will not be in vain: 
The lovely tree 
will intimeyield 
fruits." 

D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 


Opus Magnum: Animal riddles 


Opus Magnum: Animal riddles 


359 


358 

















Animal riddles 


Animal riddles 



On the top of the mountain where the 
prima materia is found ,the 'philosophers' 
vulture' (their Mercury) sits screaming in- 
cessantly: "I am the Black of the White 
and the Red of the White and the Yellow 
of the Red; I am the herald of the Truth 
and no liar". 

Maier took this Speech from the 'Rosarium 
philosophorum', a I4th-century anthology 
of alchemistic theories. The passage con- 


tinues: "And know this, that the summit of 
art is the raven, who flies without wings 
in the blackness of night and the holiness 
of the day" ( Rosarium philosophorum, 

Ed. J. Telle, Weinheim, igg2). This refers 
to the phase of nigredo, in which the solid 
components of the matter succumb to 
putrefaction. 

Michael Maier, Atalanta fugiens, 

Oppenheim, 1618 



AA Theascent 

BB Thedescent 

C Mercury 

DD The solid 
body is dissolved 

E Thesaltbe- 
comes water 

FS The Salt Body 
is made volatile / 
and ascends 

Hieronymus Reuss- 
ner, Pandora 
(die edelste Cabe 
Gottes), Baste, 
1582 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


36i 


360 




Animal riddles 


“I cametoan Un¬ 
derground house 
(...) and on its 
roof I saw pictures 
of nineeagles", 
writesthe Arabic 
alchemist Senior 
Zadith (c. 900- 
960), who is often 
quoted in the 
Aurora consurgens. 
The eagles referto 
the nine processes 
of Sublimation. 
The bow and ar- 
row represent the 
subsequent 
phases of fixation. 

The depiction is 
closely linked to 
Arab legends of 
the discovery of 
the Emerald 
Tablets of Hermes 
Trismegistus, 
which the old man 
is holding on his 
lap. On them, the 
hermetic axioms 
are represented 
hieroglyphically. 

Aurora consurgens, 
early i6th Century 



d/ tutet 

^ t i y cjSf 'pm ittßtnutntr wv$ vexf>t$j $ t fbfut 


vJXtihc /* 

fptji'pltui») 


mo tfemtHi tfpui 
♦Ir* io* 


i/rtz tndvx cntGlftt 1 

(<D viti <]in ßiMtHr mSontO&ir/'ft 

Ciliutttitp jhii JS<tfirtUr*ptf'/<tq*n<\>unitWH£ 

mt fct-jSufpint* <igtctut*/) hu» fhpu\ 


/{ fyrntin fee f2d*i?£ 

> : ÄVaf $, 


362 


Opus Magnum: Animal riddles 


Animal riddles 



"The fire gives form and makes everything 
perfect, as it is written: He blew into his 
face the breath of life (...) the fire makes 
subtle all earthly things that serve mat¬ 
ter." 


without help of the light thing. And the 
light things cannot be pressed down with¬ 
out the presence of the heavy thing. 

The 'Turba' speaks thus: Make the body 
spiritual and what is fixed make volatile." 


"No thing that is heavy can be made light Aurora consurgens, early i6th Century 


Opus Magnum: Animal riddles 


363 




















Animal riddles 


Animal riddles 


"Two birds in the 
wood are named 
and only one is un- 
derstood", ac- 
cording to Lamb- 
sprinck. The two 
young of the bird 
Hermeti signify 
the voiatile and 
solid components 
of quicksilver, 
which are united 
by repeated 
sublimations. 

Lambsprinck , 

De Lapide philo - 
sophico, Frankfurt, 
1625 


An eagle has two 
young. One is 
fledged, butthe 
other, which is 
featherless, pre- 
vents it from 
flying. "Add the 
head of one to the 
other, and you will 
have it", advises 
Maier. That is: so- 
lidify the voiatile 
and volatilize the 
solid. 

M. Maier, 

Atalanta fugiens, 
1618 









pil 


ff.. 

WM 

i® 

fl® 





Spirit and soul 
should be added 
to the body and 
taken away (solve 
etcoagula). "It may 
be a great wonder 
that two lions turn 
into one." 

Lambsprinck, 

De Lapide philo- 
sophico, Frankfurt, 
1625 


"Add to the lion a 
winged lion, so 
that both may live 
in the air. But it 
stops firmly and 
Stands on the 
earth. This picture 
of nature shows 
you the way 
through which it 
rules." Maier ad¬ 
vises sublimating 
the two natures 
(Sulphur and Mer- 
cury) until they are 
inseparable. 

M. Maier, 

Atalanta fugiens, 
1618 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


365 


364 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 












Animal riddles 


Apart from the 
snow-white steam 
that settles as 
"burning water" or 
"unnatural fire", 
and belongsto the 
"sulphurous, 
stinking waters", 
the "green lion" is 
among the "Three 
things that are 
sufficient formas- 
tery". Here it is 
described as a 
saliva-like extract 
of raw Duenech 
(antimony). 

M. Maier , 

Atalanta fugiens, 
1618 


The 'blood of the 
green lion', which 
also goes under 
the code nameof 
the 'philosophers' 
vitriol', isthe uni¬ 
versal solvent that 
swallows the 
seven metals and 
gold. Basil Valen¬ 
tine saidthat the 
solid blood of the 
red lion (the lapis, 
the sun)comes 
from the volatile 
blood of the green 
lion. 

D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 



366 


Opus Magnum: Animal riddles 


Animal riddles 



"I am he who was 
the green and 
golden lion with- 
out cares, within 
me lie all the 
mysteries of the 
philosophers." 

"The green lion 
that swallows Sol" 
is, accordingto 
the Rosarium, "our 
Mercury. It alone 
works deep into 
each body and lifts 
himup. So if it is 
mixed with a 
body, it enlivens 
and relieves it and 
transforms it from 
one consistency 
into another." 

(Rosarium philoso- 
phorum, Ed. J. 
Telle, Weinheim, 
1992) 

Heinrich Khunrath 
called it"the 
natural quickly 
comprehensible, 
Catholic Every- 
thing and Every- 
thing in Nature, 
Natural and 
Naturally-artificial 
Conquering". 

(Vom hylealischen 
Chaos, Frankfurt 
edition, 1708) 

Rosarium 
philosophorum, 
i6th Century 


Opus Magnum: Animal riddles 


367 



















Animal riddles 


"This is the 
philosophers' pot, 
with whichthey 
deal so secretly in 
their books and 
parables, sothat 
nobody can under- 
stand them(...) 

I advise all those 
who wish to fry, 
poach orboil the 
philosophers' egg, 
to be careful that 
the Shell does not 
break, forthen (...) 
all the poison 
would come out, 
and would kill 
everyone nearby 
(...), for within it 
isthe most evil 
poison in the 
whole world.“ 

J. Isaac Hollandus, 
Hand der Philoso¬ 
phen (1667), Vienna 
edition, 1746 



368 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


Animal riddles 



"Onthe rock also 
combine the eagle 
(sal ammoniac) 
with dragon's 
smoke (salt- 
petre)." The 'Third 
Key' of Basilius 
Valentius says it 
is a matter of 
"extracting the 
sulphur or soul 
fromthe King or 
gold". This sulphur 
is the fox which 
hasfixed the mer- 
curial hen and 
which is now, in 
turn, pursued and 
devoured by the 
cock. 

D. Stolcius v. 
Stolcenberg , Viri- 
darium chymicum , 
Frankfurt , 1624 


The 'basilisk' is a 
poisonous mixture 
of cock and toad. 
Its eye fixes and 
kills everything at 
once, like a strong 
solvent orthe 
projection powder 
that transmutes 
the metals. If you 
hold up a mirror 
to it, it kills itself. 
"From its ashes, 
arise wonderful 
things." 


Aurora consurgens, 
early i6th Century 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 










































Animal riddles 


Oedipus 

chimicus 


A 'serious joke' 
(Lusus serius) was 
the title that 
Michael Maier 
gave histreatise, 
published in 
Oppenheim in 
1618, in which 
Mercury is given 
precedence over 
all other creatures 
by human judg- 
ment. The cow, 
the sheep, the 
oyster, the bee, 
the silkworm and 
the flax-plant have 
their merits, but 
Mercury is "the 
king of all worldly 
things". 














When lion/sun and 
serpent/moon are 
fully united, the 
lapis is complete. 
But so that it may 
have the power to 
increase, and Mer¬ 
cury ^ can bear 
fruits, it must be 
heated and fer- 
mented in a melt- 
ing-pot with three 
parts purified 
gold. 

III. top/bottom: 

D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt , 1624 




"The world has no 
more mysteries. 
This arrogant lie 
had already irri- 
tated me around 
1880, and during 
the fifteen years 
that followed I had 
undertaken a revi- 
sion of the natural 
Sciences (...) In the 
meantime, I went 
even further, eras- 
ing the boundary 
between spirit and 
matter. So in i8g4, 
in the Antibarbarus. 
I had discussed the 
psychology of sul- 
phur." 

"The intertwined 
letters F and S re- 
mind me of the 
first letters of the 
name of my wife. - 
She still loves me! 
- The next second 
the Chemical signs 
of Ferrum and 
Sulphur strike me 
like lightning; and 
before my eyes 
the secret of gold 
lies revealed." 
(August Strind- 
berg, Inferno, 
Berlin, i8g8) 

August Strindberg, 
Antibarbarus, 
Stockholm, 1906 


370 


Opus Macnum: Animal riddles 


Opus Macnum: Oedipus chimicus 


371 































Oedipus 

chimicus 


Oedipus 

chimicus 


"Sothat thetruths 
found therein (...) 
may penetrate 
deeperintothe 
soul", the ancients 
had "so great a 
delight in the 
Egyptian images, 
riddles and edify- 
ing fables." These 
have been used by 
the chemists "to 
maketheirart very 
obscure" (J.F. 
Buddeus, Unter¬ 
suchung von der 
Alchemie). 

The lament was 
also often heard 
concerning the 
"ambiguous 
expression and the 
contrary style" of 
the alchemists. 

It was with a view 
to resolving this 
crisis that the 
Speyer doctor 
and alchemist 
JJ. Becher 1664 
wrote his Oedipus 
chimicus. 

With the help of 
mercurial inspira- 
tion, the figure 
of Greek mythol- 
ogy solves all the 
Chemical riddles 
put before him, 
whereupon the 
sphinx falls from a 
rock to its death. 

J.J. Becher, 

Oedipus chimicus, 
1664 








For Michael Maier, as for many other al¬ 
chemists of the Baroque, all the myths of 
dassical antiquity had a hidden, chymical 
background. Thus Oedipus' answer to the 
rlddle of the Sphinx - What walks on four 
logt In the morning, on two feet at noon 
and on three feet in the evening? - was 
not, as tradition has it, man, but the lapis. 
Al the beginning, the lapis is "in its quality 
and force an (elemental) rectangle", at 
noon a half-moon consisting of two lines, 
namely the white lunar stone. But in the 
•vonlng it is the substantive triangle of 


body, spirit and soul, namely the solar 
lapis with the power to tincture and to 
heal. 

Oedipus' patricide and incest were also 
chymical parables, for in the Work too 
the first cause (Father Saturnus) is 
removed by the Agent (Mercury), to unite 
again "whereby the sun is married to his 
wife". 

M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 


372 


Opus Macnum: Oedipus chimicus 


Opu« Macnum: Oedipus chimicus 


373 





















Dew 


"The Greeks tes- 
tify that from gold 
there feil a fertile 
rain as thesun lay 
inthe passion of 
love with Venus. 
And from Jupiter's 
brain as Pallas did 
arise, sogold 
must also appear 
like rain in your 
vessel." 



Vulcan, seeking to free Jupiter from his 
headaches with an axe, releases Pallas 
Athene, the goddess of wisdom, from his 
skull. This birth, Maier wrote, is celeb- 
rated annually on the island of Rhodes by 
the festival of the "golden rain", in which 
golden coins are scattered. 

Johann Glauber (1604-1670) related how 
he demonstrated another classical, gold 
rain in an experiment: "I placed a pointed 
glass retort (...) on a table, poured King 


Akrisio's beautiful daughter Danae 
through the narrow opening the glass (...) 
Afterwards, following the advice and 
actions of Jupiter, I made a golden rain 
and let it fall through the tiles of the roof, 
which is to say the narrow hole of the 
retort, down on Dana&'s lap (...)". 

(J.R. Glauber, Von den Dreyen anfangen der 
Metallen, 1666) 

M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, 

Oppenheim, 1618 


374 


Opus Magnum: Dew 


Dew 



"Blessed of the 
Lord be his land, 
forthe precious 
things of heaven, 
forthe dew (...)". 
(Deuteronomy 
33 * 13 ) 

"This dew is the 
manna on which 
the souls of the 
just nourish them- 
selves. The chosen 
hungerfor it and 
collect it with 
full hands inthe 
fields of heaven." 
(Zohar) 

"Our dew, our 
matter, is celestial, 
spermatic, dewish, 
electric, virginal, 
universal." (From 
the writing of 
Count Marsciano, 
1744 ) 

De alchimia, 

Leyden, 1526 


Opu« Macnum: Dow 


375 















Dew 


Dew 


Hardly any published work of alchemical history was more talked 
about than the Mute Book (Mutus Liber) which, like a rebus, hides its 
messages in a sequence of 15 plates. The first edition was published 
in 1677 in La Rochelle, while the present Version in colour comes from 
a late i8th-century French manuscript. The author has been identi- 
fied as one Jacobus Sulat, anagrammatically concealed behind the 
pseudonym Altus (Latin: high) in Plate 1, and in the expression "Ocu- 
latus abis" (as a sighted man you leave) in Plate 15. On many points 
the captions follow the detailed interpretations of Eugene Canseliet 
(i8gg-ig82), the pupil and editor of the works of the legendary 
alchemist Fulcanelli (Altus, Die Alchemie und ihr Stummes Buch, 
Amsterdam edition, iggi). His annotated edition of the Mutus Uber, 
Canseliet writes, was written out of gratitude that he had suc- 
ceeded, solely with the help of this hieroglyphic picture-book, in 
isolating the extraordinarily volatile salt of the dew. 

The representation of the preparatory attainment of salt on the 
wet path occupies a great deal of space within the sequence of 
pictures, while the following central preparation of the lapis on the 
dry path, with the help of the secret salt fire, is only faintly hinted at. 
The dew contains a very fine saltpetre, which is capable of refining 
the other salt. Its glyph 0 forms the basic compositional structure of 
the first plate and that of sal ammoniac © the last. This is not ordi- 
nary sal ammoniac however, but a crystalline salt with the power of 
harmony. Canseliet calls it harmoniac. Together, saltpetre and har- 
moniac work, as in Kirchwegers Aurea Catena Homeri, as the agens 
and patiens of the Work (cf. p. 278). In changing figurations they 
appear as the dual fundamental principles of the work in Mutus Uber: 
as an alchemistic pair or as Taurus and Leo, Apollo and Diana. 

The author has placed one major barrier in the way of the com- 
prehension of the work by Switching the correct sequence of the 
plates. We present the original sequence, putting Canseliet J s sug- 
gested amendments in brackets. 



QUO TAMEN^ 

Auvc* - 

Truucwur J?t*o mt~ 

<///<* /t/tts arfis 

LP xu&<rre at/u*r mtmen 


|KU T TUS LIBER 

f /*'/<! 1 

|L f/rp/iu'r*)' Jt’pirit/i/i/r , j| 

m reruumA 

L i 







•v5^ m 

Sg 

llt 


W %'JSm 


Plate 1 

Stimulated by the 
raw stone (prima 
materia), Jacob 
dreams his dream 
of the ladderto 
heaven, orofthe 
exchange of spirit 
and matter. The 
ten stars signify 
theten subli- 
mations in the 
Work. Thethree 
sequences of 
numbers, read 
backwards, refer 
to the various 
passages in the 
Bible dealing with 
the blessings of 
the celestial dew. 
The roses also 
refer to it (Dew: 
French 'rosee', 
Latin 'ros'). 


376 


Opus Magnum: Dew 


Opui Magnum: Dew 


377 




Dew 


Plate 2 

(before plate 8) 

In the phial, Nep- 
tune, in the middle 
phase of the work 
leads his disciples, 
Apollo and Diana, 
to their marriage. 
Chaotic night has 
withdrawn, and 
the light of the 
spiritual sun now 
illuminates the 
Work. 



378 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Dew 



Plate 3 

Jupiter, the first 
gleam of light to 
penetrate the 
saturnine night is 
enthroned on the 
three rings sym- 
bolizing the rota- 
tionsinthe three 
sections of the 
work with their 
reversals of inside 
and outside. Be- 
neath him, his wife 
Juno, as repre- 
sentative of the 
brightly-coloured 
phase (peacock), 
beside him the 
birds of the 
sublimations. The 
scenes of fishing 
symbolize the 
interconnection of 
coagulation and 
Sublimation of the 
two fundamental 
components. 
shown here as 
Aries and Taurus. 


Opui Mjm.num Dew 


379 















Dew 


Plate 4 

The alchemical 
couple as the 
lower correspond- 
ence to thesun 
and moon in the 
harvesting of the 
dew, which must 
occur in the 
months of April 
(Aries) and May 
(Taurus), when the 
green world-spirit 
of which Khunrath 
often spoke is at 
its strongest. The 
hermetic dew is 
also called "the 
philosophers' 
vitriol" or "green 
lion". Itsglyph 5 
can be seen onthe 
top of the church- 
tower on the right. 



380 


Opus Magnum: Dew 


Dew 



Plate 5 

After distillation, 
the woman takes 
fourcoagulated 
particles f rom the 
retort and gives 
them to the "Lunar 
Vulcan". He sym- 
bolizes the "secret 
fire" formed from 
the two salts of 
the dew. This vul- 
canic fire will later 
revivify the dead 
child at his breast. 
At the bottom, the 
dew is entrusted 
to the digestive 
apparatus. 


Opu« Macnum: Dew 


38i 


















Dew 


Dew 


Plate 6 

The result of the 
forty-day diges- 
tion and a second 
distillation is the 
appearance of a 
fixed sulphurous 
blossom called the 
"philosophers' 
gold". The man 
gives this extract 
to Apollo, who ap- 
pears in martial ar- 
mour. Beside him 
the content ofthe 
flask previously 
entrusted tothe 
secret vulcan fire 
is poured into a 
cooking vessel. 




' 








r m /V 

■f. _Ä- >1 


v aU £ 

r ■ — M 


[f 

59 «np«* 


I i ; ai 







Hf rn fii 



wr ä? i 




1 

\ £** 

|X l 



Plate 7 

The result of the 
distillations is 
conjoined with the 
extract that has 
been concentrated 
by the secret, 
lunar fire. Then 
everything is 
heated in the 
water-bath and 
the salt of Univer¬ 
sal Harmony with 
the sign * re- 
moved from it. At 
the bottom, Anti- 
mony-Saturn de- 
vours the child or 
the "philosophers' 
sulphur" After 
bei'.g purified, 
it is brought to 
whitening (Diana). 


382 


Opus Magnum: Dew 


Orui Mai.num Dow 


383 











Dew 


Plate 8 

In the phial carried 
by the two angels, 
the philosophical 
Mercury appears. 
He isthe product 
of the marriage 
of sun/Apollo and 
moon/Diana, 
brought together 
by Neptune in 
Plate 2. Theten 
birds of the Subli¬ 
mation correspond 
to the serpents of 
the Caduceus. Two 
of the birds bear 
branches with the 
signs of the two 
fundamental 
saline substances 
of the "secret 
fire", tartarsalt 
and sal ammoniac. 



384 


Opus Magnum: Dew 


Dew 



Plate g 

(after Plate 4) 

Poured into six 
plates arranged in 
the form of a fiery 
triangle, the dew 
is now exposed to 
the cosmic fluid, 
furtherto enrich 
its force (Greek 
'rosis'). The in- 
volvement of this 
energy, according 
to Canseiiet, is 
precisely what 
distinguishes 
alchemy from pro¬ 
fane chemistry. 


Op u% Magnum: Dew 


385 













Dew 


Plate 10 

Here the "philo- 
sophical egg" or 
mercurial "vessel 
of nature" is pre- 
pared and sealed. 
But the bowl and 
its contents do 
not yet consist, as 
it would appear, of 
glass and fluid, 
but of thetwo 
salts, within which 
lies the sulphurous 
blossom orthe 
"spiritual gold". 

In Athanor thetwo 
principles conjoin 
intothe definitive 
redness, the 
centre of the 
target. 





—. VS» . . i—CHE 

«ESHe 


386 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Dew 



Plate 11 

Incomparisonto 
Plate 8, the con- 
tent of the phial 
has now become 
transparent, and 
transformed "into 
the deepest depth 
of a bottomless 
light". The philo- 
sophical Mercury 
now appears ele¬ 
vated to purple 
redness, and the 
sign of the sul¬ 
phurous tartarsalt 
has beengiventhe 
glyph of Sub¬ 
limation. Atthe 
bottom, the dark- 
ening curtains 
have vanished 
from the Windows. 


OpU« Macnum: Dcw 


387 























Dew 


Plate 12 

Filled wlth inner 
dynamism, the 
sulphur-bull bucks 
and the dew in the 
bowls vibrates, 
sated with the 
nitric heavenly 
spirit, pure salt- 
petre. It is eagerly 
collected by the 
philosophical 
Mercury, who 
needs it forthe 
crystallization 
of his inner, 
sulphurous germ 
of "spiritual gold". 



388 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Dew 



Plate 13 

The sulphurous 
blossom in Plate 10 
hasturned into a 
small sun, which 
hasthe power to 
take the philo¬ 
sophical Mercury 
to its highest 
stage of consis- 
tency. (The target 
with the redden- 
ing at its centre 
has nowgrown.) 
The numbers in 
the two united 
principles indicate 
the phase of multi- 
plication, which 
advances towards 
infinity in powers 
of ten. 


Opuii Macnum: Dew 


389 
















Dew 


Plate 14 

The three ovens 
signify thethree 
different fires in 
the work: the in¬ 
nerspiritual fire, 
the secret, salt fire 
and the dark, 
material firethat 
stimulates the 
other two. This fi¬ 
nal phase is called 
"women's work 
and child's play", 
being concerned 
with constant 
cooking. It must 
last for three days 
öuntil the philo- 
sophical silver has 
been attained 
(left), and three 
more, throughto 
the philosophical 
gold, the son of 
the sun (right). 
"Pray, read, read, 
read again and you 
will find," the 
couple advise the 
man clinging 
to the heels of 
Mercury. 



f < >/\/ 
f&ter-fuvr /fa/ft/r 

Ltl'jrii Inxvtiu\f 


390 


Opus Magnum: Dew 


Dew 



Plate 15 

The night of the 
first plate has 
made way, in this 
closing plate, for 
the rising red sky 
of morning.The 
pagan Hercules 
has completed the 
deeds ofthe 
Work, and remains 
as a physical 
residue onthe 
floor, while, 
thanks to the dew 
(the roses), his in- 
corruptible Spirit 
body rises intothe 
airasthe true cor¬ 
nerstone, uniting 
male and female. 
The surrounding 
branches (this is 
more easily seen in 
the first edition) 
form an X, the 
Greek Chi, the sign 
of Christ or the 
revealed light. 


Opus Magnum: Dew 


391 
























Dew 


Here, the French 
alchemist 
Armand Barbault 
(1906-1974)'S 

shown wringing 
outthedew-dren- 
ched canvases. 
Barbault added 
these liquids, 
whose quality de- 
pends strongly on 
the species of 
plant from which 
they are collected, 
to a plant extract, 
the "blood of the 
green lion", his 
prima materia. 

As such, he took 
a piece of "virgin 
earth", which had 
to be untouched 
by Chemical fertili- 
zers, and com- 
posted it forthree 
years, along with 
the additives until 
it was completely 
black. 

Armand Barbault, 
L'or du milliäme 
matin, Paris, 7979 



392 


Opus Macnum: Dew 


Women's work 
& child's play 



The "whitening" 
of the black mat¬ 
ter after the phase 
of nigredo, shown 
as "women's 
work". 

Joyce was familiär 
with the illustra- 
tionsof the 
Splendorsolis, and 
variously worked 
motifs from them 
into his work: 
"Wring out the 
clothes! Wring in 
the dew! (After 
Tennyson: "Ring 
out the old, ring in 
the new")(...) 
Spread! it's churn- 
ing (chum: centri- 
fuge) chill (depres- 
sion, nigredo) Der 
went ist rising. I'll 
lay a few stones on 
the hostel sheets. 
A man and his 
bride embraced 
between them." 
(The rebis of Sol 
and Luna). 

(J. Joyce, Finne¬ 
gans Wake, p. 213) 

S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 
ißth Century 


Opus Macnum: Women's work & child's play 


393 






















Women's work 
& child's play 


"Look at a woman and learn how she 
washes her linen, pours warm water 
thereon and mixes with ashes. Copy her, 
and everything will go well, for the body, 
so black, will be washed clean by the 
water." This water is the "philosophical 
fire" that penetrates the centre of the 
raw matter and and takes from it all its 
impurities. 

M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, 

Oppenheim, 1618 




"Just as a woman 
softens, simmers 
and cooks fish in 
their own water 
(...)the artist also 
treats his subject 
in his own water, 
which is stronger 
than the strongest 
vinegar. He 
destroys it, makes 
it soft, dissolves 
it and coagulates 
it, and all in the 
well-seaied glass 
of Hermes." 

M. Maier, 

Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


394 


Opus Magnum: Women's work & child's play 


Women's work 
& child's play 



'Women's work' 
and 'child's play', 
generally men- 
tioned in a single 
breath,refer to 
an advanced phase 
of the Opus, in 
which, apart from 
the maintenance 
of a constant fire 
for coction, there 
is nothing to do 
but pass the time. 
According to Sa- 
lomonTrismosin, 
however, this 
picture of playing 
children is also a 
parable of the 
fixation of the 
quicksilver by the 
sulphur, because 
as in "child's play", 
what was previ- 
ously above 
(Mercury) is now 
below. 

Thegroupinthe 
foreground is 
reminiscent of the 
"Hülsenbeck 
Children" by Ph.O. 
Runge (1805) 

S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 
i6th Century 


Opus Magnum: Women's work & child's play 


395 



















































Vegetable 

Chemistry 


"Sowthegold in 
the white, foliate 
earth which isthe 
third earth that 
serves the gold, it 
tinges the elixir 
and the elixir 
tinges it in turn." 

'Tingeing' means 
colouring, and is 
used in the sense 
of a penetrating 
transferof power. 
Here the last two 
phases ofthe 
'multiplicatio' and 
the 'projectio' are 
addressed. 


Aurora consurgens, 
early i6th Century 




"Nature brings to light nothing that is per¬ 
fect, but man must perfect it. This perfec- 
tion is called alchimia. An alchemist is the 
baker when he bakes bread, the vinicultur 
ist when he makes wine, the weaver when 
he makes cloth." (Paracelsus, Paragranum , 

1530) 

Sourdough is a favourite image of the 
ferment used in the process to raise the 
matter. 


Aurora consurgens , late I4th Century 


396 


Opus Macnum: Vegetable chemistry 


Vegetable 

chemistry 


Even before Paracelsus (1493—” | 54 ‘i). who 
has gone down in history as the founder of 
pharmaceutical iatrochemistry (Greek 
’iatros', doctor), healing was a major aim 
of alchemy. As the alchemical process is 


geared towards organic growth, Newton 
described alchemy, in contrast to mechan 
ical laboratory chemistry, as 'vegetable 
chemistry'. 



Here the "most learned philosopher" is 
handing "Mother Alchemy" a bunch of 
herbs to heal her sick body. While her 
golden head and her silver breast (painted 
over by a censor, in this instance), are al- 
ready complete, her lower body is still in 


an impure, poisonous state. Herthighs are 
swollen by dropsy, and her calves and feet 
afflicted with gout. 

Aurora consurgens , early i6th Century 


Opus Macnum: Vegetable chemistry 


397 
































Vegetable 

Chemistry 



"Good, pure, oleous and mild soil, neces- 
sary moisture for putrefaction and nour- 
ishment for growth, also the warmth of 
the sun for growth and fecundity; seeds 
need all these things. And likewise in the 
art. First, prepare your seed in the matter; 
you should clean this (...) and the pure fire 


and water spirit will bless your fruit." 
(M. Barcius, "Gloria Mundi", in: Hermeti¬ 
sches ABC, Berlin, 1778) 

D. Stolcius von Stolcenberg, Viridarium 
chymicum, Frankfurt, 1624 



Vegetable 

Chemistry 


Pseudo-Eleazar, an 
ißth-century al- 
chemist hiding be¬ 
händ thename of 
Flamel's legendary 
teacher, consider- 
edthisfifth page 
of the codex to be 
of special import- 
ance. "Should you 
lose all writings, 
just copy these 
figures or paint 
them for your 
children, andthey 
will easily under- 
stand them." The 
old oaktree is 
"our black and 
heavy lump, our 
Albaon", a code- 
name foranti- 
mony. From it 
growthe red roses 
as "the blood of 
the Ancients or 
oursecret gold" 
and "the moon- 
white water", 
called "our 
python" (a code 
name for Mer- 
curius vivus). 

Abraham Eleazer, 
Uraltes chymisches 
Werk , Leipzig, 1760 


398 


Opus Magnum: Vegetable Chemistry 


Opus Magnum: Vegetable Chemistry 


399 









Serpent 


Serpent 


"Here you see, 
flowing from a 
desert, a lunar, 
white water which 
is from the old 
progenitorof all 
things, spread on 
two paths."This is 
the dangerous dry 
path "that goes 
from the oiliness 
of the earth, from 
the primordial 
chaos. The other 
(wet path) from 
our black, heavy 
and white lump; 
butthat the 
snakes creep in 
the grass, the 
Python (Mercury) 
is in the dry path, 
forthis is very 
poisonous, but if it 
must climbthe 
mountains(head 
of the still) a num- 
berof times, it 
becomes a f lower, 
and almost medici- 
nal." 

A. Eleazar, Uraltes 
chymisches Werk, 
Leipzig, 1760 




The second Illus¬ 
tration in Flamel's 
codex showed 
"a cross, where a 
snake was fas- 
tened and cruci- 
fied". 

The serpentthat 
Moses nailed to 
the cross "that it 
might be seen be- 
fore all the people 
and they might 
recover from the 
plague they had 
endured", is a 
symbol of the 
healing power of 
the Mercurial 
elixir, the crucified 
Christ (John 3,14). 
Pseudo-Eleazar 
callsthis snake the 
"powerful king of 
nature" who heals 
the whole world, a 
salt-baim. But be- 
fore it can become 
effective, the pri- 
material poison¬ 
ous body must be 
dismembered 
and the volatile 
spirit fixed with a 
golden nail. 

A. Eleazar, Uraltes 
chymisches Werk, 
Leipzig, 1760 


400 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


401 








Serpent 


"The first Illustra¬ 
tion in Flamel's 
Codex showed "a 
rod and two ser- 
pents devouring 
one another". 

They embody the 
repeated circula- 
tion of distillation 
and condensation. 
"The winged 
snake," Pseudo- 
Eleazar explains, 
"signifiesthe uni¬ 
versal world-spirit, 
(...) which is 
sucked from the 
dew and with 
which we prepare 
oursalt. Butthe 
lowest snake sig- 
nifies our matter, 
(...) the virgin 
earth (...)found 
beneath the 
vegetable roots." 
This is the 
"philosophers' 
turf" that Armand 
Barbault dug on 
the nights of the 
new moon. On 
many points, 
Barbault precisely 
followed the 
instructions of 
Pseudo-Eleazar. 

(cf. p. 392) 

A. Eleazar, Uraltes 
chymisches Werk, 
Leipzig , 7760 



402 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


Serpent 



"Thetop snake 
(No. 3)isthe cos- 
mic spirit which 
brings everything 
to life, which also 
kills everything 
and takes all the 
figures of nature. 
To summarize: he 
is everything, and 
also nothing." 
Through the art of 
Separation one 
makestheOne 
into Two, "which 
have the Third and 
Fourth within 
themselves. It is 
the most volatile 
and also the most 
fixed, it is a fire 
that consumes 
everything, and 
opens and closes 
everything (...). 
Cook this fire with 
fire until it stops, 
and you have the 
most fixed thing 
that penetrates all 
things, and one 
worm has eaten 
the other, and this 
figure(No. 4) 
comes out." 

It is called 
Ouroboros. In 
Coptic Ouro means 
king, and in 
Hebrew ob means 
a snake. 

A. Eleazar, Donum 
Dei, Erfurt, 1735 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


403 








Serpent 


"Makeof man and 
woman a circle; 
when you add the 
head tothetail, 
you have the 
wholetincture." 
(Hermeticsaying) 



"Consider these two dragons, for they are 
the true beginnings of philosophy which 
the sages were not permitted to show 
their children. The one at the bottom is 
called the fixed and constant or the man. 
But the upper snake is the volatile or 
black, dark woman. The first is called sul- 
phur or the warm and dry. The other is 
called quicksilver or the cold and moist (...). 


If they are brought together and then 
returned to the quintessence, they over- 
come all dense, hard and strong metallic 
things." (Nicolas Flamel, Chymische Werke , 
Hamburg edition, 1681) 

A.J. Kirchweger , Annulus Platonis (Aurea 
Catena Homeri), 1781; reprinted Berlin , 7927 


404 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


Serpent 



A number of versions exist of the famous Ripley's writings were circulated by the 

• mblem scroll which gave a sympathetic Theatrum chemicum Britannicum published 

depiction of the poetic, bizarre visions by Elias Ashmole in 1652 (Reprint: New 

of Sir George Ripley (i6th Century). The York, London, ig67). Ashmole was one of 

twelve signs of the zodiac, in which the the founders of the Royal Society and one 

hermaphroditic matter of "Sunne and of the first "speculative Masons to be 

Moone" circulates, refer to Ripley's well- accepted into the London guild of "work- 
known work, The Compound of Alchymie, in masons". 

which the preparation of the "drinkable 

gold" is described as a repeated passage Ripley Scroll , i6th Century 

through the twelve gates of the process. 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


405 








Serpent 


"These are the two 
snakes fastened 
around Mercury's 
staff, with which 
he demonstrates 
his great power 
and changes into 
whicheverforms 
he wishes (...). 
When these two 
are placed 
together in the 
vessel of the Dead 
Tomb, they bite 
one another 
cruelly (...). 
Through putre- 
faction they lose 
their first natural 
formsto takeon a 
new, nobler form 
(...). The reason 
why I make you 
draw these two 
(male and female) 
seeds in the form 
of adragon is 
because their stink 
is very great, and 
their poison 
(Nicolas Flamel, 
Chymische Werke, 
Hamburg edition, 
1681) 

Livre des figures 
hieroglyphiques, 
Paris, I7th Century 



406 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


Serpent 



The two snakes 
which, inthis 
tantricdepiction, 
symbolize cosmic 
energy, are wound 
around an invisible 
Ungarn (phallus). 

In Sanskrit, the 
microcosmicform 
of this universal 
energy is called 
kundalini. The vital 
stream of the 
awakened kun¬ 
dalini ascends 
along the spine 
via the central, 
subtle channel, 
the susumn, to the 
centre of the 
brain.Tothe left, 
isthe lunar chan¬ 
nel, ida, to the 
right the solar 
channel, pingala. 
The three channels 
come together 
again in the area 
around the eye- 
brows. 

Bosohli, c. 1700 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


407 













Serpent 




Serpent 


"ln Indiathespine 
is called the staff 
of Brahma. Illustra¬ 
tion 4 also shows 
the archetype of 
the Caduceus, 
whose two ser- 
pents symbolize 
the Kundalini or 
the serpent fire 
(...) whilethe wings 
signify the power 
of conscious flight 
through the higher 
worlds brought 
about bythe 
unfolding of this 
fire." 

(C.W. Leadbeater, 
The Chakras, ig27) 




Ripley's "Serpent 
of Arabia" speaks: 
"Azoth is truly my 
sister, and Kibrick 
(Arabic kibrit, 
sulphur) is indeed 
my brother". 
Ripley advises: 
divide it inThree, 
make from it One 
and you have the 
lapis. 

Theatrum 
chemicum 
Britannicum, 
London, 1652 




In the Second Key of Basil Valentine, a 
purifying bath "of two fighters (ie. of two 
eonflicting materials)" is prepared forthe 
bridegroom, gold. The one on the right 
with the eagle on his sword is sal ammo- 
niac, the one on the left is saltpetre. The 
philosophical Mercury in the middle sym- 


bolizes the distillate of the two, the 
mineral bath in which the bridegroom is 
dissolved forthe marriage. 

D. Stolcius von Stolcenberg, Viridarium 
chymicum, Frankfurt, 1624 



As well as having practical capacities for 
chymical laboratory work, being well-read 
and intelligent, the artist must try above 
all by living religiously and virtuously to 
share in the mercy of God, shown here 
elevating the bipolar, mercurial matter, 
with the Holy Ghost, into the trinity of the 
lapis. 

Theatrum chemicum Britannicum, 

London, 1652 


408 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


409 














Serpent 


Serpent 



Seal of the spagyric laboratory 'Soluna', 
founded in 1921 by the poet and shadow 
player Alexander von Bernus at Stift 
Neuburg near Heidelberg, and continued 
a few years later in Stuttgart. According 
to Bernus, iatrochemical spagyrics, which 
date back to Paracelsus, refers to "that 
type of healing which includes both com- 
plex homeopathy and biochemistry and 
goes beyond itself; for on the one hand it 
encompasses the whole fund of medicines 
of both, on the other it gives the disabled 
organism the indicated ingredients in (...) 


an 'open' and thus assimilable state, 
particularly the metals, half*metals and 
minerals." 

These medicines, according to Bernus, 
have their effect through the invisible 
"fluid body" or "ethereal body" of man 
and are thus capable "of summoning up 
the healing forces without burdening the 
organism with poisonous substances and 
doing it lasting damage, so that it may 
reorganize itself". (Von Bernus .Alchymie 
und Heilkunst, Stuttgart, 1936) 



The illustration 
shows "two para- 
bolicstreams(...) 
which together 
yield the mysteri- 
ous triangulär 
stone" and "a mys- 
terious and natural 
firewhose spirit 
penetrates the 
stone and Sublim¬ 
ates it into 
vapours which 
thicken in the 
vessel". It should 
also be observed 
"that art gives this 
divine fluid a 
double crown of 
perfection by 
reversing the 
elements and 
purifyingthe 
beginnings, from 
which it becomes 
Mercury's 
Caduceus" and 
"that this very $ 
likea Phoenix (...) 
attainsthe final 
perfecton of the 
fixed philo- 
sophers' sulphur." 

A.T. de Limojon de 
Saint-Didier, Le Tri - 
omphe hermetique, 
1689, Cerman edi- 
tion Frankfurt, 1765 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


411 




410 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


































Serpent 


Serpent 



Seal of the spagyric laboratory 'Soluna', an 'open' and thus assimilable state, 

founded in 1921 by the poet and shadow particularly the metals, half-metals and 

player Alexander von Bernus at Stift minerals." 

Neuburg near Heidelberg, and continued 

a few years later in Stuttgart. According These medicines, according to Bernus, 

to Bernus, iatrochemical spagyrics, which have their effect through the invisible 

date back to Paracelsus, refers to "that "fluid body" or "ethereal body" of man 

type of healing which includes both com- and are thus capable "of summoning up 

plex homeopathy and biochemistry and the healing forces without burdening the 

goes beyond itself; for on the one hand it organism with poisonous substances and 
encompasses the whole fund of medicines doing it lasting damage, so that it may 
of both, on the other it gives the disabled reorganize itself". (Von Bernus, Alchymie 
organism the indicated ingredients in (...) und Heilkunst , Stuttgart, 1936) 



The illustration 
shows "two para- 
bolic streams(...) 
which together 
yield the mysteri- 
ous triangulär 
stone" and "a mys- 
terious and natural 
fire whose spirit 
penetrates the 
stone and Sublim¬ 
ates it into 
vapours which 
thicken in the 
vessel". It should 
also be observed 
"that art gives this 
divine fluid a 
double crown of 
perfection by 
reversing the 
elements and 
purifying the 
beginnings, from 
which it becomes 
Mercury's 
Caduceus"and 
"that this very $ 
like a Phoenix (...) 
attainsthe final 
perfecton of the 
fixed philo- 
sophers' sulphur." 

A.T. de Limojon de 
Saint-Didier, Le Tri - 
omphe hermetique, 
168g, Cerman edi - 
tion Frankfurt, 1765 


410 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


411 































Serpent 


Mercury received a staff from Apollo. 
When he came to Arcadia with it, "he 
found two serpents biting one another; 
he threw the rod between them, and they 
became one once more, hence the rod (...) 
is a sign of peace (...)". (G.A. Böckler, Ars 
Heraldica, Nuremberg, 1688/Graz, 1971) 

Der Compaß der Weisen, Ketima Vere, 
Berlin, 1782 



"The cold, moist vividness of Mercury 
reaches the Elemental Mixture through 
celestial impression." (L. Thurneisser) 

"The inner Mercury is the life of the deity 
and all Divine Creatures. The outer Mer¬ 
cury is the life of the outer world, and all 
outer corporeality (...) in growing and 
procreative things." (Böhme, De signatura 
rerum) 

Leonhard Thurneisser, Magna Alchymia, 
Berlin, 1583 



«Prüflingen. J&tancn. ^midbwrg. 


412 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 



Opus Macnum: Serpent 


413 


"The painted, 
winged Mercury is 
volatile by nature 
(...). His staff 
wound about with 
snakes points to 
his power (...) with 
which he opens 
heaven and earth, 
gives death and 
life and, with this 
powerful nature 
both ascends to* 
wardsthesky and 
descends to earth, 
thus attaining 
the powers of the 
upper and lower 
things." ("Aus des 
Herrn de Nuyse- 
ment's Tractat 
vom allgemeinen 
Geist der Welt", 
in: Hermetisches 
ABC, Berlin, 1778) 


Famae alchymiae, 
Leipzig, 1717 






Serpent 




This illustration is 
inspired by a sec- 
tion from the Rip- 
ley Scroll, various 
copies of which 
were in circulation 
inthei 5 thand 
i 6 th centuries. 

Adam (Hebrew: 
red earth) is sul- 
phur, Eve mercury. 
According to Ful- 
canelli, thesnakes 
of the Caduceus 
representthe 
"sharp and dis- 
solving nature of 
mercury, which 
greedily absorbs 
the metallic sul- 
phur (the golden 
staff)". 

(Le Mystere des 
Cathedrales, Paris, 
1964) 

Figuarum Aegyp- 
tiorum Secretarum, 
i8th Century 





414 Opus Magnum: Serpent 


Serpent 



Allegory of the 
marriage of the 
dual principles in 
the work: onthe 
leftthefemale, 
mercurial side 
withthe pelican as 
a symbolic animal, 
feeding its young 
with its blood, and 
on the right, the 
male, sulphur side 
with the firebird, 
the Phoenix. 

Figuarum 
Aegyptiorum 
Secretarum, 
i8th Century 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


415 
















Serpent 


Serpent 


For Hieronymus 
Reussner ( Pandora, 
Basle, 1582), the 
dragonthatgrows 
from the "philo- 
sophers' tree" is 
"our Mercury" or 
the "water of life" 
from whch God 
created all things. 
United in it, are 
the powers of the 
six planets and 
metals. The doub- 
le-headed eagle 
of the Habsburgs 
symbolizesthe 
fixed and volatile 
components of 
matter. 

Hieronymus 
Reussner, Pandora, 
Basle, 1582 






The "Red Sea" in 
the caption above 
this detail from 
the Ripley Scroll 
was a well-known 
code name for the 
divinemercurial 
waterand itstinc- 
turing power. Here 
it is depicted as 
the blood pouring 
from the heart of 
the "Serpent of 
Arabia". It brings 
happinessto 
whomsoeverfinds 
it, and flows, 
round as a ball, to 
every place in the 
world, Ripley 
writes. 

The comparison of 
the little red 
blood-corpuscles 
and the lapis reap- 
pears as a leit- 
motif in William 
Blake's relative 
theoryof space 
and time, which he 
developed in his 
late poem Milton 
as a response 
to the concepts 
of Newton 
(cf. p. 530). 

Ripley Scroll, 
manuscript, 
ißth Century 


416 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


417 


Serpent 


Serpent 


"The dragon has 
killed the woman 
and she him, and 
both are poured 
over with blood." 



The dragon that dwells in the narrow 
crevasses embodies the elements of earth 
and fire, the woman water and air, accord- 
ing to Maier. Earth refers on the one hand 
to the physical Sediment of distillation, 
and on the other to the "virgin earth" of 
the philosophers, at the centre of which is 
hidden the great dragon blaze, the secret 
fire. Here the two, of which "one is white 
(Mercury) and the other red (Sulphur)", 
nestle united in a deep grave, the putre- 
faction. 


This final image from Maier's Atalanta 
fugiens was taken up by Blake, who was 
well versed in Hermetic symbolism. He 
interpreted the woman as Jerusalem or 
the spiritual emanation of the fallen Eng- 
land/Albion, which lay in the strangling 
grip of materialistic powers. 

M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 



From the python 
(Mercurius vivus) 
a"heavy, greasy 
water" is prepar* 
ed. "In this water 
you can dissolve 
the king (gold), his 
whole body, and 
then hand it to 
Vulcan, who 
cooks both in the 
supreme medi- 
cine.Thus, with 
this greasy python 
one can fecundate 
the king and the 
queen, so that 
they will conceive 
incredible num- 
bers of children." 

A. Eleazar, Donum 
Dei, Erfurt, 1735 


418 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


419 








Serpent 


The "Mercurial 
tail-eater" is "our 
subject". "From 
this one root will 
sprout roses, the 
supreme good." 
The white rose 
signifies the lunar 
"Philosophical 
Tincture", the red 
rose the solar 
"MetallicTinc- 
ture". The mysteri- 
ous"blue rose" 
in the middle is 
called the "flower 
of wisdom". 

Blue is not given 
any autonomous 
significance in al- 
chemical colour 
theories. Itgener- 
ally signifies a 
moist state of mat¬ 
ter, and is treated 
as a modification 
of saturnine black, 
the sign of high 
spirituality and ar- 
cane knowledge. 

H. Reussner, Pan¬ 
dora, Baste, 1582 



420 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


Serpent 



"Not without 
reason do the 
ancient philo- 
sophers compare 
quicksilver with a 
snake (...) because 
it pullsatail 
behind it and its 
weight drags it 
hither and 
thither." 


Theancients, Maier writes, sawthe 
Ouroboros ring both as "the change and 
return of the year" and as the beginning 
of the Work in which the poisonous, moist 
dragon's tail is consumed. When the 
dragon has completely sloughed its skin, 
like the snake, the supreme medicine has 
risen from its poison. 

In Goethe's hermetic Märchen (1795), the 
Ouroboros plays an important part: "(...) 


sweet Uly stood motionless, staring 
rigidly at the soulless corpse (...) In her 
mute despair she sought not help, for she 
knew of no help. The snake moved all the 
more assiduously against it (...) With its 
lithe body it drew a broad circle around 
the corpse and grasped the end of its tail 
with its teeth and lay there peacefully." 

M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 


Opus Macnum: Serpent 


421 



















Serpent 


This sheet from an 
nth-century Greek 
anthology illus- 
trates a treatise 
about 'gold-mak- 
ing' (Chrysopeia) 
by an alchemist 
named Cleopatra 
in 4th-century 
Alexandria. 

At this time, 
alchemists were 
persecuted by 
the state and the 
Church, since 
there wassuppos- 
edly a biblical 
curse upontheir 
work. The caption 
is said to have 
been whispered to 
mankind by the 
fallen angels. The 
inscriptions and 
Symbols on the 
sheet indicate that 
at this time Chem¬ 
istry was a sub- 
sidiary part of 
magic. 

The circles on the 
top left read: 

"One is all, of him 
is everything, for 
him is everything, 
in him is every¬ 
thing. The snake is 
the one; it has two 
symbols, good and 
evil". 



KT'vfc oTTÄirp h C 


rronrnia 


422 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


Serpent 



Abraxas gems and zodiac man 


The snake was tho 
central, symbolic 
animal of many 
late Classical sects. 
It was worshiped 
by the Naassenians* 
(Hebrew, 'Naas', 
snake) as a demi- 
urge, by the 
Ophites (Greek 
'Ophis', snake), it 
was worshipped 
as the redeeming 
sonof God. As the 
serpent of Moses 
it represents the 
basis of all magical 
powers or, as 
Ophiomorphos, 
the spirit of evil. 

Talismans of the 
gnosticGod 
Abraxas, shown as, 
amongst other 
things, a snake- 
footed hybrid, 
were widely dis- 
seminated. His 
magical name, 
withthe numeric 
value365, encom- 
passes theuni- 
verse, which, ac- 
cordingto the 
gnostic Basilide 
(c. A.D. 130), con- 
sists of as many 
heavens as there 
are days in the 
year. 

Erasmus Francis- 
cus, Das eröffnete 
Lust-Haus der 
Ober- und Nieder * 
weit, Nuremberg, 
1676 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


423 










































Serpent 


The magical in- 
scriptions on the 
Abraxas gem- 
stones were often 
surrounded by the 
Ouroboros. He is 
Eon, the entirety 
of time and space, 
and also Okeanos, 
the water-beltin 
the gnostic cos- 
mology, which 
separates the 
upper sphere of 
the Pneuma from 
the lower, dark 
waters. 

Heinrich Khunrath 
calls "our Mer- 
cury" Proteus, the 
eternally wander- 
ing watery, old 
man from Greek 
mythology, "who 
has the keys to the 
sea(...)and power 
over everything, 
the son of 
Oceanus(...) who 
reforms and 
returns in diverse 
forms". ( Vom 
hylealischen Chaos , 
Frankfurt, 1708) 

Whoever manages 
to grasp and pre- 
serve him will 
achieve great and 
wonderfulthings. 

Johannes Macarius, 
Abraxas en 
Apistopistus, 
Antwerp, 1657 



424 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


In the outer ring of this Egyptian time- 
wheel, an attempt is made to harmonize 
the 360 degrees of the zodiac with the 365 
days of the calendar. Among the Egyp- 
tians, the extra five days were devoted to 
the birth of the gods and the new year. 

The twelve months follow in the central 
ring, and within that the snake of eternity 
connects the four gods Sothis (=Sirius), 

Isis, Osiris and Horus. Each of them is the 
ruler of a "great year" consisting of 365 
earthly years. All told, they produce 1461 
years, the amount of time between the 
moments when the year's first rise of 
Sirius coincides with the sunrise. 

According to more recent discoveries, the 
directional shaft in the queen's chamber in 
the pyramid of Cheops is said to be aimed 
precisely at this fixed star, which was held 
to be the star of Isis. 


The earliest interpretations of hieroglyph 
have been handed down to us in the Greek 
language by Horapollo, an Egyptian of the 
5th Century A. D.. "If they wish to repre- 
sent the universe, they draw a snake scat- 
tered with bright scales, swallowing its 
own tail: the flakes indicate the stars of 
the universe (...) Each year it divests itself 
of its skin, the old time (...) And the con- 
r .umption of its own body indicates that all 
things in the world which may be pro- 
duced by divine providence in the world, 
also succumb to decay." 

III top/bottom: A. Kircher, 

Obeliscus aegyptiacus, Rome , 1666 




Opus Magnum: Serpent 


425 




Serpent 


To the poor soul who wants to turn away 
from God, the Devil shows his own image 
as the cycle of nature, "in the form of a 
snake: the fire*wheel of essence". He 
speaks: "You too are such a fiery Mercury, 
as you introduce your desire into this art. 
But you must eat from a fruit in which each 
of the four elements reacts within itself to 
the other, with which it is in conflict.'" 


When the soul has eaten of it, "Vulcan 
lights the fire-wheel of essence, and all 
the qualities of nature awakened in the 
soul, and guided it into its own pleasure 
and desire". (J. Böhme, Gespräch einer 
erleuchteten und unerleuchteten Seele) 

J. Böhme , Theosophische Werke , 
Amsterdam , 1682 



Opus Magnum: Serpent 


Serpent 



Since Vulcan lit 
the mercurial 
wheel of anguish 
into which the soul 
had imagined it¬ 
self, "its meaning 
only Stands after 
the multiplicity of 
natural things". It 
is entirely subject 
tothe changeable 
play of the pas- 
sions. 

The illuminated 
soul counselsthe 
poor soul to break 
the bonds of the 
monstrous snake- 
husk by introdu- 
cing it to Christ, 
the spirit of love, 
who, by becoming 
flesh, had burst 
thegates of Hell 
andthus reopened 
the way to 
Paradise. 

J. Böhme , 

Theosophische 

Wercke, 

Amsterdam , 7 682 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


427 


426 





Serpent 




Joel 2,13: "Rend 
your heart, and 
not yourgar- 
ments, and turn 
unto the Lord, 
yourGod." 

The fiery soul has 
entered a false 
shelter with fire, 
and must break 
out again with fire 
and violence, or 
the diabolical ser¬ 
pent orthe astral 
world spirit will 
keep it in its 
prison. There is no 
escape route 
downwards; "only 
upwards - above 
all the senses - 
does onedraw 
breath and 
strengthen life". 
Here the celestial 
Sophia awaits her 
soul-bridegroom. 

J. Böhme, Weg zu 
Christo, 1730 
edition 







428 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 




Serpent 



Here, three divine 
figures are falling 
into the yawning 
abyss of the mat¬ 
erial world (Ulro), 
which the abstract 
demon Urizen 
(your reason) 
created by divid- 
ing the eternal 
world into light 
and darkness. 

In an 1818 engrav- 
ing, Blake inter- 
preted the Greek 
Laocoon group 
(he believed it to 
be the copy of a 
Hebrew original) 
as Jehovah being 
strangled by the 
snakes of good 
and evil with his 
two sons Satan 
and Adam. "Art is 
the tree of life, 
Science is the tree 
of death". 

W. Blake, The Book 
of Urizen, Lambeth, 
1794 


Opus Magnum: Serpent 


429 


























































Return In the emblem of the Theosophical Society, a combination of the 

western Ouroboros, the eastern Swastika, the Jewish Star of David 
and the ancient Egyptian Ankh, its syncretic Programme is very 
directly expressed. 

The society was founded in New York in 1875 by the Russian 
emigrant Helena P. Blavatsky (1831-1891), described by W.B. Yeats as 
a "primeval peasant". In Joyce's Finnegans Wake , she appears as a 
hen scratching a mysterious piece of writing from a dung-heap. This 
is her 'Secret Doctrine', published in three volumes in 1888, a myth- 
ical pot-pourri such as is found, for example, in paintings by Max 
Beckmann, imbued with the spirit of fin-de-siecle salon spiritualism. 

In 1879 the society moved its main seat to Adyar in India. The 
mixture of Eastern spirituality and Western 
occultism made a decisive contribution to the 
development of abstract painting. Wassily Kandin- 
sky and Piet Mondrian were among the society's 
devotees. 

Her Programme of "science, religion and 
philosophy", which she sought to promulgate with 
a keen sense of dramatic effect, also makes 
Madame Blavatsky a herald of the New Age move¬ 
ment of the late 20 th Century. 

According to hertheory, the whole cosmos 
consists of a seven-stage process of evolution and 
involution. The goal of humanity is the upward 
development from the sexual, material body to 
the ethereal, light body. This path leads from the currently dominant 
Aryan mother-race to a sublimated race of people that she saw 
emerging in the America of her own time. It is clear that such 
doctrines, which were easily compatible with the inhuman racial doc- 
trines of Guido von List and Lanz-Liebenfels, could become esoteric 
Supports for the formation of Nazi ideology. 



430 


Opus Magnum: Return 


Return 



After the death of Madame Blavatsky, 
there was a break in 1895 between the 
Indian headquarters of the Theosophical 
Society and its original seat in the USA, 
which was run by Katherine Tingley. Chris¬ 
tian and Nordic motifs predominate in 
her painting of the eternal cycle of global 
ascents and descents. 

When the leaders of the society in India 


sought to impose upon its European mem- 
bers a Hindu boy called Krishnamurti as a 
new Messiah, in 1913, under the direction 
of Rudolf Steiner, the German section 
broke away to form itself as the Anthropo- 
sophical Society. 

The Theosophical Path, Ed. Katherine 
Tingley, Point Loma, California, USA, 1926 


Opus Magnum: Return 


43i 











Return 




"Since the matter 
and substance of 
things are indes- 
tructible, all its 
parts are subject 
to all forms, so 
that Each and 
Everything be- 
comes Everything 
and Each. if not 
atoneand the 
sametime and in 
a single minute. 
then at various 
times and various 
moments, in 
sequence and in 
alternation." 
(Giordano Bruno. 
Ash Wednesday, 

1584) 

Cycle ofrebirth, 
Bhaktivedanta 
Book Trust , 7993 



432 


Opus Magnum: Return 


Return 



At the top left of the picture, we see the 
cause of the great cosmic disorder: when 
Urizen, reason, falls asleep, drunk at the 
wheel of the sun-chariot, Luvah, passion, 
takes control of the vehicle. The result of 
this reversal is the dark "sea of time and 
space" with the cycle of incarnations. 

In the Politeia , Plato speaks of the "thou- 
sand-year wandering of the soul", defined 
by the "spindle of necessity", and by the 
three Fates who decide on birth, life and 
death (bottom left). At the right, with a 


bücket of water from the source of life in 
his hand, the soul rises into the vegetable 
hollow of the body, which is woven by 
women at the "womb-spinning-wheels of 
generation". 

The figure in the red robe at the left may 
be Odysseus, "who symbolizes man on his 
way via the dark and stormy sea of the 
Generatio". (Thomas Taylor, Plotinus, 
Conceming the Beautiful, London, 1787) 

W. Blake , The Arlington Court Picture, 1821 


Opus Magnum: Return 


433 

















Return 


"All the works that 
the good God has 
created go around 
in a circle and are 
perfect, retuming 
from whence 
they have come." 
(John Dastin, 
"Rosario vom 
Stein der Weisen", 
i4th Century, in: 
Hermetisches ABC, 
Berlin, 1778) 

D.A. Freher, Para¬ 
doxa Emblemata, 
manuscript, 
i8th Century 


434 



Opus Magnum: Return 



















Return 


Return 


Ph.O. Runge , Zwei 
Kinder in Rosen • 
blüten, durch den 
Schlangenring der 
Ewigkeit getrennt , 
7S03. ( 7 Vvo children 
in rose-flowers, 
separated by the 
snake-ring of 
etemity.) 




"The Sun's light 
when he unfolds it 

Depends on the 
Organ that 
beholds it." 

William Blake , 

For the sexes: The 
Gates ofParadise, 
1793 and 1818 


What is Man? 


436 


Opus Magnum: Return 


Opus Magnum: Return 


437 





















Conjunctio 



"Hermes writes: The dragon only dies 
when he is killed by his brother and sister 
at once. Not by one alone, but by both at 
once, namely by sun and moon (...) That 
means that one must fix and unite it with 
Luna or Sol. The dragon is the living quick- 
silver drawn from or out of the bodies that 
have a body, soul and spirit. Hence, it is 
also said that the dragon does not die 
without his brother and his sister (...)." 

( Rosariumphilosophorum, Ed. J. Telle, 
Weinheim, igg2) 


"The dragon always represents Mercury, 
whether it is fixed or volatile," writes 
Maier. Within it is Saturn, who eats his 
own tail and, because of his poison and his 
sharp teeth, is a watchful and faithful 
servant of the philosophers, who is not 
easily vanquished. 

M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 


438 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


Conjunctio 



"Our Mercurial 
dragon" can only 
be conquered by 
Sol and Lunato- 
gether, that is, in 
Order to kill him 
one must remove 
hissulphur and 
lunar moisture at 
the same time. 

Aurora consurgens, 
early i6th Century 



"It is said: Woman dissolves man, and he 
makes her solid. That is: The spirit dis¬ 
solves the body and makes it soft, and the 
body fixes the spirit." 


"Senior says: I am a hot and dry Sol and 
you Luna are cold and moist. When we 
couple and come together (...) I will with 
flattery take your soul from you". (Aurora 
consurgens) 


Aurora consurgens, early i6th Century 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


439 











































Conjunctio 


The king, Gabri- 
cius, and his sister, 
Beya, want to em- 
brace "to conceive 
a son whose like is 
unknown tothe 
world". 

The feet of the 
gryphon ordragon 
in the rock indic- 
ate that both are 
fromthe same 
poisonous 
parental house 
of prime matter. 

In the Rosarium 
philosophorum 
it also says: "The 
intercourse of 
Gabricius with 
Beya leadsto his 
immediate death. 
For Beya rises 
above Gabricius, 
and encloses him 
in her womb, so 
that nothing can 
be seen of him. So 
great is her love 
that she has 
absorbed him 
entire into her 
nature and divided 
him into indivis- 
ible parts". 

J.D. Mylius, 
Anatomia auri, 
Frankfurt, 1628 



440 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


Conjunctio 



\ ft 

Lu ** 

; O & 




üixüoroM 


5 iM* 

4*,^ $ r ©70a/O \ntib -v 'find 


Den ©otf. 


7la ^ U: ' * brr 'stueoUitt 


• - - 


In the green mountain of prima materia 
the signs of the relevant materials are 
assigned to Saturn's magic square of num- 
bers. At the top, sun and moon lift their 
imperial son' (the mercurial tincture) from 
its baptism in the retort. 


The manuscript, from the circle of the Gold 
and Rosicrucians, contains parallels with 
Kirchweger's Aurea Catena a Homeri (1781). 

Materia Prima Lapidis Philosophorum, 
manuscript, early i8th Century 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


441 























Conjunctio 




The 'Donum Dei', 
first containedin 
I5th-century 
manuscripts, is 
one of the most 
widespread 
alchemical collec- 
tions of quota- 
tions. Here, the 
stages of the work 
are illustrated in 
twelve pictures. 

The royal pair 
seeksto unite to 
give birth toason, 
a king "his head 
red, his eyes black, 
hisfeet white: this 
is mastery". 

" We want to go 
and seekthe na- 
ture of the four el- 
ements which the 
alchemists draw 
fromthe belly of 
the earth./Here 
begins the dissolu- 
tion of the wise 
(solutio), and from 
it comesourquick- 
silver." 

Donum Dei, 

I7th Century 


R SOLVTIO II. 





442 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


Conjunctio 


R Solvtio PEFFECTA III. 



"The stone is pre- 
pared from four 
elements brought 
together./ Here, 
the bodies dis- 
solve entirely in 
our living quick- 
silver, that is, in 
the water of our 
mercury, and from 
it emerges a 
permanently 
persistent water." 

"Return the nature 
of the four ele¬ 
ments, and soon 
you will find what 
you seek, but to 
return nature 
means making 
corpses into spirits 
in our mastery." 

Donum Dei, 

I7th Century 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


443 











Conjunctio 


"Putrefaction of 
the wise their 
raven-head/(...) 
when you see the 
blackness delight, 
for it isthe begin- 
ning of your 
work." 


£ PV'TREFACTIO 


IV. 


This phase lasts 
for a longtime, 
so one should be 
patient, "for 
where our mastery 
is concerned, 
haste comes from 
the devil". 

The following 
pictures describe 
the formation of a 
black, stinking 
earth, its disso- 
lution into the 
mercurial 
"philosophers* 
oil", the first 
whitening and the 
appearance of 
many colours. 

Donum Dei, 

I7th Century 



Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


Conjunctio 


K CmiS ClNERVM a 4 . X. 



"An ash of ashes/ 
The black fogs 
have settled on 
her body, from 
where they 
started, and there 
has arisen a unity 
between the earth 
and the waterand 
there has arisen an 
ash." This ash 
should not be 
underestimated, 
for in it, according 
tothe legendary 
alchemist 
Morienus, is the 
diadem of the 
king. 

In similar illustra- 
tions, the tree that 
grows from the 
ashes grows a 
grape-like fruit or 
thethree stars of 
the work. 

Donum Dei , 

I7th Century 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


445 


















Conjunctio 


"The white rose. 

I am the elixirof 
Whiteness, tum- 
ing all imperfect 
metals intothe 
purest silver." 

The Catalan 
physician Arnald 
of Villanova (ca. 
1240-1311) quotes: 
"Whosoever has 
made me white 
also makes me red. 
Both white and 
red spring from a 
single root". 
Whiteness is only 
transformed into 
redness by dry 
coction (Calcina- 
tio), just as white 
urine is coloured 
yellow by continu- 
ous digestion in 
the body. 

Donum Dei, 

I7th Century 


R Rosa Alba xl 




446 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


Conjunctio 


R 


Rosa Rvbea 


XIL 


"The red rose. I am 
the elixirof Red¬ 
ness, turning all 
imperfect bodies 
intothe purest 
and truest gold." 



The red king 
shines like the sun, 
"clearas thecar- 
buncle, impetu- 
ously fluid like a 
wax, resistant to 
fire, penetrating 
and containing liv- 
ing quicksilver. He 
combines absolute 
sulphurous solid- 
ity with ultimate 
mercurial flexibil- 
ity. 

According to the 
Christian doctrine 
of transubstantia- 
tion, the purple 
colourof blood is 
the supreme form 
of spirituality. 

Donum Dei , 

I7th Century 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


447 















Conjunctio 


"my goldrush 
gainst hersilver* 
netss" (J. Joyce, 
Finnegans Wake) 

S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London, 
i6th Century 



448 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


Conjunctio 


The Sol and Luna poem, a slightly abbreviated Version of which is 
reproduced on the following pages, has circulated since 1400. It ap- 
peared in an illustrated version in 1550, in the first publication of the 
Rosarium philosophorum and 
has, since then, been one 
of the most populär and 
widespread alchemical pic- 
ture-books. The alchemical 
scholar, Joachim Telle, who 
has devoted an in-depth 
study to the work (J. Telle, 

Sol und Luna, Hürtgenwald, 
ig8o), laments the inter- 
pretative trend of psycho- 
analyst C.G. Jung that has 
predominated in the 20th 
Century. In the sequence of 
pictures Jung saw principally 
a notation of psychic and 
unconscious 'projections' 
or a 'symbolic drama'. 

By making the pictures 
Contemporary in this way, 

Telle writes, one risks losing 
the historical singularity of 
the picture-poem. "Spiritual 
and psychological interpre- 
tations ignore above all the fact that the picture-poem is connected 
with scientific texts (...) Over the centuries, it was seen as an educa- 
tional aid teaching about processes in the material world." The roots 
of this picture-alchemy lie in Arabic alchemy; we know too little 
about its complex teachings. 



Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 


449 















































Conjunctio 


UNIFICATION OR 
COPULATION 

"O Luna, 
surrounded by 
me/and sweet one 
mine/ 

You become 
fine/strong/and 
powerful as I am 

0 Sol/you are 
recognizable 
above all others/ 

You need me as 
the cock needs the 
hens." 



EXTRACTION OF 
THESOULOR IM¬ 
PREGNATION 

"Here, king and 
queen lie dead/ 

The soul departs in 
great haste. 

Here, thefourele- 
ments separate/ 

And from the body 
the soul departs 
apace." 



450 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 












Conjunctio 


"Here is bornthe 
noble empress 
rieh/ 

The masters say 
she is like her 
daughter. 

She multiplies/ 
producing children 
numberless/ 

They are immor- 
tally pure/and 
without nourish- 
ment. 

(...) 

I became a 
mother/ and yet 
remain a maid/ 

And was in my 
essence lain with. 

That my son be¬ 
came my father/ 

As God has de- 
creed in essential 
way. 

The Mother who 
gave birthto me/ 

Through me will 
be born on earth." 

Rosarium 

philosophorum, 

7550 



452 


Opus Magnum: Conjunctio 


Conjunctio 


FERMENTATION 



' But here Sol is enclosed and poured over Rosarium philosophorum 1, 7550 

with Mercurio philosophorum*." 


Opus Magnum: Conjunctio 


453 








Conjunctio 


FIXING 

"Here Luna's life is 
not at an end/ 

The spirit rises 
high apace. 




454 


Opus Macnum: Conjunctio 




































Androgyny 


THE KING'S 
RIDDLE 

"Here is bornthe 
richly honoured 
king/ 

No higher may be 
born, 

With art or 
through nature/ 

Of any living crea- 
ture. 

ANSWER OF 
QUEEN LUNA 

Hereis bornthe 
noble empress 
rieh/ 

All philosophers 
say she and her 
daughter are one. 

She multiplies and 
gives birth to 
countless children 

Whoare immortal/ 
and without nour- 
ishment." 

Rosarium 
philosophorum, 
manuscript, 
i6th Century 



456 


Opus Macnum: Androgyny 


FI 


Androgyny 



"He is conceived in the bath and born in 
air, but when he has turned red he leaves 
the water." 

Sexual coupling occurs in the putrefaction 
on the bottom of the retort, when "man 
acts inside the woman, that is, Azoth 
inside the earth". But birth occurs above, 
in the steams of the still head." 

M. Maier , Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 







"The hermaphrodite is born from two 
mountains, of Mercury (Hermes) and 
Venus (Aphrodite)“ 

Like his father's Caduceus, it is a double 
thing (rebis) that unites the two oppos- 
ites: "the he and the she and the is of it". 
(J. Joyce, Finnegans Wake) 

M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 


Opus Macnum: Androgyny 


457 
















The pair arise as a 
rebis from the 
grave of putrefac- 
tion, and are 
cleaned of their 
blackness by the 
dew of heaven. 


Androgyny 


The extensive pic- 
ture series from 
the Philosophia re- 
formata of J.D. 
Mylius (1622) was 
clearly influenced 
by the 'Sol and 
Luna' picture 
poem. After puri- 
fication by fire and 
the dissolution of 
their bodies in the 
mercurial bath, 
the royal brother 
and sister are 
united. The ravens 
indicatethe stage 
of putrefaction. 


458 


Opus Macnum: Androgyny 



i-flü.'mi! 


illlil * 1 




Opus Macnum: Androgyny 


Androgyny 


Philosophical gold 
and silver appear 
on the faces of the 
rebis. The pres- 
ence of the two 
winged creatures 
indicates the final 
processes of Sub¬ 
limation. 


459 


The pelican, feed¬ 
ing its young with 
its blood, symbol- 
izes the final 
phase of the Mul- 
tiplicatio. Given 
definitive strength 
and fixity, the red 
and white lapis 
arise from the 
mercurial spring. 


All illustrations: 

D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum 1, 
Frankfurt , 1624 




















Androgyny 


"The hermaphrod- 
ite, lying in the 
dark like a corpse, 
needs fire." 

The philosophers 
call the cold and 
moist matter, 
woman (moon), 
the hot and dry, 
man (sun). The an- 
drogynous being is 
all four qualities 
at once. With fire 
one can remove 
the excess of 
moisture and form 
"the idea in the 
philosophical 
work, which is 
tincture". 

M. Maier, 

Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 



III. right: 
W. Blake, 
Jerusalem, 
1804-1820 


After Adam had fallen from celestial androgynity into the death- 
sleep of materiality, Christ followed him down into this "unreality", 
in order, by creating Eve, to give him the possibility of redemption. 
Böhme wrote: "Christ turned Adam in his sleep from vanity (...) back 
to the image of the angel", while he created Eve "from his essence, 
from the female part". "She is Adam's matrix of celestial essence 
(Sophia)". Blake called these female parts 'emanation' and the male 
parts the shadowy spectre. The central task of earthly existence was 
the redemption of the 'emanation' and the unification of the two 
parts. The path there leads, according to Blake, through sensual 
delights and physical fulfilment, and it is distorted by false moral 
teachings and dogmatic religiosity as the chief instruments of sexual 
repression. 


460 


Opus Macnum: Androgyny 


Androgyny 



Opus Macnum: Androgyny 


461 






























Androgyny 


Ulmannus (early 
i5th Century) 
began, like Jacob 
Böhme, with 
man's free choice 
between the 
worlds of wrath 
and love. "Here 
you have three 
kingdoms in which 
you wish to be # 
your works are in 
accordance". Man 
is created out of 
thetwofold sun". 
The inward, spir¬ 
itual sun embodies 
the divine 
hermaphrodite. 

He isthe personi- 
fication of un- 
selfish alchemy, 
consisting of 
"jesus, the male 
stone of purity" 
(Mercurius/spirit) 
and "mary, the 
female stone of 
loveliness" 
(Luna/body).Their 
unity is God the 
Father(Sol/soul), 
the "petrolith", 
which strengthens 
against all the 
devil'stempta- 
tions. 

Buch der heiligen 
Dreifaltigkeit, 

I5th Century 



462 


Opus Macnum: Androgyny 


Androgyny 







lufhnArn i 




K! A.\\\ 

• iii|| 1 




Bn 

M 1 


m 


H ? 

1t 4 



This androgynous 
being isthe spec- 
tral, immodest na- 
ture from "Lucifer 
Anti-Christ and his 
mother: one body 
and soul, fixed and 
volatile. Herein 
consist the natural 
arts of this world". 
Their roots are the 
seven deadly sins. 
The four crowns 
are the elements, 
represented by 
the lower qua- 
dernity in Ulman¬ 
nus' System: Mars 
(fire), Venus 
(water), Saturn 
(earth), Jupiter 
(air), "the ele¬ 
ments bring good 
and evil, sepa- 
rated eternally". 
They are nega- 
tively united in the 
'black memorial 
sun" as "sol lapis 
metal corporeal". 

Buch der Heiligen 
Dreifaltigkeit, 
i 5 th Century 


Opus Macnum: Androgyny 


463 






























Androgyny 


The introductory 
page of the Aurora 
Consurgens is an 
allegory of wis- 
dom, also known 
as 'the south 
wind', as a Symbol 
both of the Holy 
Spirit and of the 
totality of subli- 
mations. 

Here, the south 
wind is repres- 
ented as a large 
eagle, gradually 
uniting thetwo 
opposites. The 
three legs on 
which theandro* 
gynous being 
Stands, referto 
the three-footed 
stand on which the 
retort is exposed 
tothe fire. After 
thecoupling, Sol 
says to Luna, "we 
will rise intothe 
order of the most 
ancient [that is 24 
sublimationsor 
eagles], then will 
a burning light be 
poured into me 
and you" (Senior 
Zadith, in: Aurora 
Consurgens). 



464 


Opus Macnum: Androgyny 



Matthäus Merian originally made this engraving for J.D. Mylius' 

Opus Medico-Chymicum (1618). It was later used in the appendix to 
the Musaeum Hermeticum (1625). 

Merian presented all the components of the Great Work in a 
single great synthesis: a horizontal axis separates the sphere of the 
divine from the wheel of nature, which is divided into the various 
phases of the Work, from raven-nigredo to phoenix-rubedo. The 
dividing artist Stands surrounded by a forest of metal, separating 
along the verticals, in a powerful act, chaotic matter into day and 
night, sun and moon, sulphur and mercury, fire and water. The great 
unification occurs at the centre of the wheel, the intersection of the 
axes, in the sign of the mercurial lapis, the "philosophers' hydrolith". 

The deer-headed figure to the right is the hunter Actaeon, who 
espies nature (Diana/Luna) unclothed. For Giordano Bruno, he is a 
symbol of the fearless searcher after truth. 


Opus Macnum: Separatio 


465 



























Hermetic 

Yantras 


Inthe Hindu reli- 
gion, the simplest 
geometrical 
representations 
of dynamic powers 
are called "Yantras" 
Heinrich Zimmer 
callsthem "a kind 
of map(...) of the 
staged develop¬ 
ment of a vision". 

(Mythen und Sym¬ 
bole in indischer 
Kunst und Kultur, 
Zürich, ig5i) 


466 



"Make of man and woman a circle, from 
that a square, then a triangle, then an- 
other circle, and you will have the philo- 
sophers' stone." 

For the alchemists there was nothing 
stränge about the squaring of the circle, 
wrote Maier. They use the square that 
comes from the circle to demonstrate 
"that from every simple body the four 
elements must be separated (...) By the 
transformation of the square into a 
triangle they teach that one should bring 
forth spirit, body and soul, which then 


appear in three brief colours before the 
redness". The body is assigned saturnine 
blackness, the spirit the lunar-watery 
whiteness and the soul the airy, citric 
colour. "If the triangle has now attained 
its highest perfection, it must be brought 
back into a circle, that is, an immutable 
redness. Through which Operation 
the woman returns into the man and from 
their legs, a single one is formed." 

M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 


Opus Magnum: Hermetic Yantras 



Hermetic 

Yantras 



Geometrical depiction of the Pythagorean 
tetractys, based on the maxim of anony- 
mous Arab alchemists, as handed down 
through the anthologies of the Turba 
philosophorum and the Rosarium since the 
I3th Century in Europe. The inner circle 
represents the microcosmic One which, 
through the Step of four, becomes the 
macrocosmic ten, which, in turn, as the 
quintessence of the alchemists, encom- 
passes all other possibilities. 

D. Stolcius von Stolcenberg, Viridarium 
chymicum, Frankfurt, 1624 



The archetypal, trinitary heaven encom- 
passes the quadernity of the empyreal or 
fiery heaven, the ethereal heaven and the 
elemental heaven with the earth at the 
centre. This figure is a reflection of the 
tetragrammaton enclosed in a triangle. 

R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


Opus Magnum: Hermetic Yantras 


467 






Hermetic 

Yantras 


The hexagram is also known as a magical 
'Solomon's Seal', with which, according to 
legend, Solomon is supposed to have cast 
a spell on the evil spirits. In alchemy and 
theosophy, it is familiär as a "signet Star", 
a "star or heavenly force that gives under- 
standing to the wise and shows the way, 
as to the Wise Men in the East", (G. Gich¬ 
tei, 1682). Six, the number of days of 
creation, symbolizes the Opus, and the 
rotating motion in the Work. 

A. von Franckenberg, Raphael oder Arzt- 
Engel, 1639, reprinted 1925 



Emblem engraving from Heinrich 
Madathanus, Aureum Seculum redivivum 
(the Golden Age revived). 

Author's motto: "The centre of the world 
is the corn in the field." 

In the outer circle: "Of wonders there are 
three: God and man, mother and maid: the 
three and the one." 

In the inner circle: "The centre in the 
centre of the triangle." 

M. Maier, Viatorium, Oppenheim, 1618 



468 


Opus Macnum: Hermetic Yantras 


Hermetic 

Yantras 



According to 
Tantric doctrine, 
the final truth 
consists in the 
complete 
interpenetration 
of Shiva and 
Shakti, of male 
andfemale 
energy, of purusha 
(form) and prakriti 
(matter). Shiva, 
the upward-point- 
ing triangle, 
represents the 
static aspect of 
the supreme 
reality; Shakti, the 
downward-point- 
ing triangle, repre¬ 
sents the kinetic 
energy of the ob- 
jective universe. 

Vajravarahi 
Mandala, Tibet, 
tgth Century 


Opus Macnum: Hermetic Yantras 


469 




























Hermetic 

Yantras 


The page is di- 
vided into the two 
main columns of 
nature (left) and 
art (right), both 
resting on the 
foundation of the 
mine. The prima 
materia of nature is 
iron sulphate, the 
"green Vitriol" 6 
from which, by re* 
peated processes 
of distillation 
(eagle), what can 
be obtained isthe 
"red vitriol", the 
fixed sulphur (lion) 
as the ultima mate¬ 
ria. In the centre: 
the coat of arms 
with the philo- 
sophical mercury 
(the bird Azoth). 
The glyph of Mer¬ 
cury $ appears to- 
wards the bottom 
of the left-hand 
diagram, formed 
from the two 
snakes of the Ca- 
duceus.They 
frame a combina- 
tion of letters 
from 'Vitriol' and 
'Azoth'. 

S. Michelspacher , 
Cabala, Augsburg, 
1616 


470 



Hermetic 

Yantras 



DOMICILIVM 
Elcmcntorum. 


DOMICILIVM 

Stella.rtim 


- 10ANN1S DANTEL1S MYLIl 

'c/JS' Vitteroni M. C. 

OP VS MED IC O- 

CHYMICVM: 

Cauttient trcs Treff et lufus "Bfiftlicir. 
OHcr.-um priorinfcribitorDASicic a Mknrc a. 
Secundas Da jhtca Chymic/.. 
Tcrtius Basiiica Phuojophic a. 

V inufvrtitiuil't'CAM tzxms. >6:5. 


DOMICILIVM 

Microcofmi. 


DOMICILIVM 

Mineralium. 


( HERM 1 


Fiat Temar\k* 




One characteristic 
feature of the 
design of Baroque 
title-pages is their 
antithetical con- 
struction. Here, as 
day and night, 
alchemy (Hermes: 
sun) and classical 
medicine (Hip- 
pocrates: moon) 
face one another. 
Mylius' intention 
was to harmonize 
the iatrochemistry 
of Paracelsus with 
the medieval the- 
ory of humours 
afterthe Greek 
physician Galen 
(i2g-igg A.D.). 
Thefour elements 
and the Paracel- 
sian tria prima are 
thetheme of the 
medals. 

J. D. Mylius, Opus 
Medico - Chymicum, 
1618 


Opus Macnum: Hermetic Yantras 


471 
















Trinity 


Trinity 


"Our lapis shares 
its name with the 
creator of the 
world; for it is 
three in one." 
(Zosimos, 

4th Century) 

Cornelius Petraeus, 
Sy Iva philosoph- 
orum, I 7 th Century 





Here the "mani¬ 
fest trinity" of the 
right, light-side of 
God is repres- 
ented in Böhme's 
System, "the king- 
dom of love". 
Italonegives the 
shadowy dynamic 
natural gound of 
the leftside, the 
"wheel of anguish" 
of Salt, Sulphur 
and Mercury its 
essentiality and 
vivid brilliance. 

D.A. Freher, in: 
Works of 
J. Behmen, Law 
Edition, 1764 




"In the Father is eternity, in the Son iden- 
tity and in the Holy Spirit the marriage 
of eternity and identity (...) and these 
three are one, namely body, spirit and 
soul; for all perfection is based on the 
number three." ( Aurora consurgens, I5th 
Century) 

The Trias in the Work is represented by the 
birds in the three colours of the Work. 

The Holy Spirit is compared in the 'Aurora 
consurgens' with the mercurial water, 
which makes everything earthly, heavenly, 


in a sevenfold way, and has a cleansing, 
enlivening and fertilizing effect. 

"In every wood, stone and plant are three 
things (...) First, is the power from which 
a body comes (...) then, in the same, is a 
fluid that is the heart of a thing; thirdly, 
therein is a springing force, smell, ortaste, 
that is the spirit of a thing, from which it 
grows or increases." (Jacob Böhme, Aurora, 
1612) 

Aurora consurgens, early i6th Century 


472 


Opus Macnum: Trinity 


Opus Macnum: Trinity 


473 


































Trinity 


Trinity 


ln the first Work 
the saturnine 
source material 
is sublimated 
thrice by being 
moistened with 
the 'boy's urine', 
a well-known code 
name forthe 
mercurial water. 
Then according 
tothe 'Turba 
philosophorum', it 
should be cooked 
until the blackness 
passes. 




There are three 
Works in the Opus 
Magnum. The 
philosophers speak 
of three bowls and 
three degrees of 
fixation, indicated 
here by the three 
arrows. The first 
Work is dissolu- 
tion, and ends 
with the phase of 
nigredo, the sec- 
ond ends with red- 
dening, and in the 
third, that of the 
multiplicatio, the 
lapis receives its 
tincturing power. 
The philosophical 
egg has been incu- 
bated. 


After the conclu- 
sion of the third 
and last Work the 
elixir has the 
power to pen- 
etrate all impure 
metals(including 
common gold), 
transforming them 
into its own heav- 
enly quality. 




Worldly power 
falls to its knees 
beforethe glory of 
the 'red son of the 
sun'.The three 
crowns symbolize 
its complete con- 
trol over the three 
realms of plant, 
animal and min¬ 
eral. 

All illustrations: 
Speculum veritatis, 
I 7 th Century 


474 


Opus Magnum: Trinity 


Opus Magnum: Trinity 


475 








Trinity 


Trinity 


Painfully, a father 
(body) separates 
from his only son 
(spirit) and en- 
trusts him to the 
care of aguide 
(soul), who teads 
him up a high 
mountain (still 
head)to show him 
the wide world. 
Here, the sun 
hears his father's 
cries for help, and 
returns. 

Lambsprinck, De 
Lapide philosoph- 
ico, Frankfurt, 1625 




Here, the father 
sweats, so that 
"the oil and the 
right tincture of 
the philosophers 
flow from him". 

He asks God to 
give him back his 
only son, whom he 
has swallowed. 
Hereupon, he is 
sentan astral rain 
(dew), which dis- 
solves his body 
while he sleeps. 

Lambsprinck, De 
Lapide philosoph- 
ico, Frankfurt, 1625 


"Oh, my son, in 
your absence I was 
dead (...) but in 
your presenceI 
will live again." 
Joyfully the (dry) 
father embraces 
the (fluid) son and 
swallows him. 

Lambsprinck, De 
Lapide philosoph - 
ico, Frankfurt, 1625 




The father, now 
completely trans- 
formed, first into 
"a clear water", 
then into a "good 
earthly empire", 
has created a new 
son. "Here father, 
sun and guide are 
linked as one, so 
thatthey remain 
together for 
eternity." 

Lambsprinck, De 
Lapide philosoph - 
ico, Frankfurt, 1625 


476 


Opus Macnum: Trinity 


Opus Macnum: Trinity 


477 







Trinity 


Here, one of the most complicated and fascinating Systems in the 
history of alchemy is concealed behind the conventional apparel of a 
"Coronation of the Virgin". The Book of the Holy Trinity (1415—141g) 
sought to sweep away the erroneous doctrine that only God the 
Father and the Son are essentially one, for Mary was also born in the 
Holy Spirit, and had conceived in the Holy Spirit: "jesus mary mother 
of god he himself is she his own mother in his humanity". In countless 
variations, Ulmannus worked his way through the trinitary relation- 
ships of father, mother and son. The son represents the spirit (Mer- 
cury), the father the soul (Sol) and the virgin mother the body (Luna). 
She is the divine matrix, the great mystery from which all being 
springs. "If she dissolves, it is to give male nature (...), and when she 
congeals, it is to take on a female body." 

Ulmannus described Mary as the "mirror of the Holy Trinity". 
Later, Böhme used the same image in reference to Sophia: she is "the 
exhaled force" or "what is found of the eternal Nothing, in which 
father, son and spirit are seen". (Von der Gnadenwahl, 1623) 

This higher trinity of body, spirit and soul is joined by the four 
Evangelists, as the four sublimated elements. Luke, the bull, is fire 
(Mars), Matthew the angel, is water (Venus), John, the eagle, is earth 
(Saturn) and Mark, the lion, is air (Jupiter). In Ulmannus' System 
these correspond to the seven metals, the seven wounds of Christ, 
the seven virtues, colours, days of the week and times of day. 

Particularly interesting is the large shield with the black double- 
headed eagle dedicated to the Emperor Frederick. Ulmannus called 
this shield the "a mirror of the Holy Trinity". It is an allegory of Subli¬ 
mation in the Work and the lapis. The black eagle symbolizes the 
saturnine putrefaction and the two heads refer to the twofold aspect 
of bodily existence: outward-material and inward-sublime. It is the 
earthly cross on which the Christ-Lapis raises humanity. John, to 
whom the black beast is assigned here, was, like Saturn, the patron 
saint of alchemists. 


478 


Opus Macnum: Trinity 


Trinity 


Buch der Heiligen 
Dreifaltigkeit, early 
I5th Century 



Opus Macnum: Trinity 


479 







Trinity 


The pictures in the 
'Buch der Heiligen 
Dreifaltigkeit' 
were disseminated 
in simple wood- 
cuts, and inter- 
preted on the 
basis of the Para- 
celsian doctrine of 
theThree Princi- 
ples. The follow- 
ing exegesis ap- 
plies to the Mirror 
of the Holy Trinity: 

A The Philosoph- 
ical eagle is born 
and delivered 
through and from 
blackness, with all 
its qualities 

B The conjunction 
or unification 
of theThree Prin- 
ciples 

C Sulphur 

D Mercury 

E Salt 

F. Epimetheus, 
Pandora, Hamburg, 

1727 







rittstym 




Die^LuwIUonii 


y^l 


ft! 



■W\ 


480 


Opus Macnum: Trinity 


Trinity 



mSTA^fOJVPHOSlS JPL^STETAnV^m 

l)iU Irtr ^ 

\%ne yininb*rhtßr'ftcA& Veröde ***** 

’/UteßijxÄtGe/hiAen in iHr er/hs mit hyjefiyttm / 

^rac&f, enttlecAuttd'^erbf'tpren ScAtudef, Zueruutpurt^ 

J^ncipAeh ,tmbdfsViuverpiUs 
\ffenerafisf**n+' jfet&ruj, faß Arteten 
\ * ^Durct 

| IjgANJTJCAf JDJß J&ONTJZ S 7000X1 


As the final result 
of thetransfor- 
mation of the 
planets, the 
universal medicine 
appears as the 
rulerof the three 
realms of vege- 
table, animal and 
mineral. "This new 
birth was given 
the sun at its right 
and the moon at 
its left hand, for 
he had the power 
to burn the worid, 
to extinguish it 
and make it 
fecund again." At 
the bottom edge 
of the picture, we 
see the base 
metals begging 
himforhelp, 
whereupon, 
through the effect 
of fire, a "wonder- 
ful balm went from 
his sweat pores in 
the form of an oil", 
which led the 
other metals 
"through its 
magnetic nature" 
tothe supreme 
degree. 

J. de Monte- 
Snyders, Metamor¬ 
phose planetarum, 

1663 


Opus Macnum: Trinity 


481 












Trinity 



W. Blake , 
Jerusalem i, 
1804-1820 


William Blake's last, great, illuminated poem, Jerusalem (1804-1820), 
concludes with the "divine Vision" of the re-established harmony of 
the four fundamental forces of man. The "Four Zoas" now appear in a 
fourfold rainbow that heralds the end of the flow of time and space. 
At the same time, limited material space opens up to Jerusalem, into 
the infinite freedom of the Golden Age. 

But the closing image seems less optimistic. In the middle Stands 
"Los demiurgos" (James Joyce, Ulysses), leaning on the tools with 
which he forges "from the world of death the world of generation". 
Urizen, calculating reason, turns this world of incarnation into a 
pagan temple of snakes, which can be seen in the background. It 
symbolizes the pantheistic idolatry of nature, the worship of matter. 

Los is split into his male shadow (spectre), which ascends on 
the left of the picture, carrying the sun of imagination (solution), 
and his female "emanation", which is weaving the world of the 


482 


Opus Magnum: Trinity 


Trinity 


womb from the fibres of its body (coagulation). The composition 
refers to 'satanic three-dimensional space' and the trinity of di- 
rected time. 

Blake developed the character of Los from various Paracelsian 
concepts. On the one hand, he is the "Archaeus", the inner alchemist 
or "craftsman of all things", who transforms the primal, spiritual 
forms into matter. Paracelsians such as Sendivogus and P. Spiess also 
called him the "governor of the sun" or the "central sun". "Now, what 
is Imaginatio but a sun within man!" said Paracelsus. "As the sun 
does lovely work, so does the imagination also. It gives fire and sets 
light to all materials like the sun." (Paracelsus, De virtute imaginativa) 

The Archaeus or "inner Vulcan" is identified by many hermetics 
with the "secret, salt fire". And also the name "Los" can be read not 
only as an anagram of Sol-sun, but also as Sal-salt. In reference to 
the spiritual "salt of the earth", Blake called its sphere of activity, 
the imagination, Urthona: earth owner. 

But Los is also the prophetic "Elias Artista", who, according to 
Paracelsus, will appear at the beginning of the Golden Age to reveal 
the final secrets of alchemy. By rearranging the letters, Johann Glauber 
came to the conclusion that behind this name there lay nothing less 
than the wonderful "Salia Artis", the "Salt of Art". (J. Glauber, De Elia 
Artista , 1668) 


Opus Magnum: Trinity 


483 


















"Three are the 
substances that 
give each thing its 
Corpus," said 
Paracelsus. He ex- 
plained them with 
reference to the 
example of wood: 
"What bums is 
sulphur(...) what 
smokes is Mer- 
curius(...) what 
becomes ashes is 
Sal." Sal isthe 
physical Sediment, 
the corpse. Here 
Sulphur(cloud) is, 
unconventionally, 
feminine, and 
quicksiiver(fish) is 
masculine. 

O. Cro//, Chymisch 
Kleinod , Frankfurt, 

1647 



Beneath the rain- 
bow, which shows 
slowly drying mat¬ 
ter, the secret salt- 
fire, in the figure 
of the bishop, con- 
joins the moist 
Mercury Queen 
with the dry Sul- 
phur King. Beside 
them, Neptune 
prepares the mer- 
curial marriage 
bath. 

D. Stolcius von 
Stolcenberg, Viri- 
darium chymicum, 
Frankfurt, 1624 




Allegorical 
representation of 
salt: 

Jupiter, atthe 
centre of the 
group, points to 
the "central fire" 
in which the 
"secret salt of 
nature" has its 
centre. 

(Elias Artista) 

Neptune points to 
thetartar, which 
plays a part in the 
preparation of 
"oursalt". "The 
salts are key; 
they open the box 
wherein the treas- 
ure lies." (Basil 
Valentine) That it 
is Pluto, the god 
of the underworld, 
who holdsthis 
key, refers to the 
idea that salts 
come from the 
ashes of death, 
and play the role 
of catalyst in the 
black phase of 
putrefaction. 

B. Coenders van 
Helpen, Escalier 
des sag es, 168 g 


484 


Opus Magnum: Fire 


Opus Magnum: Fire 


485 














Fire 


Fi re 


"Give fire to 
fire/Mercuriusto 
Mercurio/and it is 
enough." 



Like attracts like. For Maier, the whole 
world depended on this chain of attrac- 
tion. But there are "many and varied 
species of fire and Mercurii": 

Just as there is an inner fire which is set in 
motion by the outer fire, and which then 
unfolds its diverse effects, there is a hid- 
den, extremely subtle mercury, the "May 


dew" which is won through distillation 
from the outer mercury. 

The whole Work consists of the interplay 
between the two opposed principles: mer- 
cury-water provides the matter, sulphur- 
fire provides the form. 

M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 



The seventh key of Basil Valentine is an 
allegory of the regulation of fire (sword 
and scales). One must, above all, ensure 
that the phial is hermetically sealed to 
prevent the escape of the spiritual water, 
which is inscribed here as a fiery triangle 
within the salt square. 

The "philosophers' salt" is obtained by 
removing the fixing sulphur from the phys- 
ical salt, and thus turning its innermost 
outwards. 

D. Stolcius von Stolcenberg, Viridarium 
chymicum, Frankfurt, 1624 



Half of the art lies in the discovery of the 
fire, said Arnald de Villanova in the Rosa¬ 
rium. The regulation occurs according to 
the colours in the Work and the seasons. 

In the spring, in Aries, a powerful fire 
is used to calcinate the metals, in the 
summer, in the sign of Cancer, a gentle one 
for dissolution, in autumn, in Libra, a 
medium fire for Sublimation and in the 
saturnine, Capricorn phase of Putrefaction 
and Fermentation a constant lukewarm 
horse-dung heat. 

D. Stolcius von Stolcenberg, Viridarium 
chymicum, Frankfurt, 1624 


486 


Opus Macnum: Fire 


Opus Macnum: Fire 


487 






















Fi re 


Fi re 


According to 
Paracelsus, the 
Salamander lives in 
fire, but not in 
dark, material fire, 
but rather in the 
essential 'spirit- 
fireof nature'. 



"Salamander comes from sal, salt, and 
from mandra, which means table, but also 
cave, lair (...). Lying on the straw of a crib 
in the grotto of Bethlehem, is not JESUS 
himself the new sun, which brings the light 
of the earth (...) this spiritual fire, which 
has been made flesh and assumed form in 
salt." (Fulcanelli, Les Demeures Philoso- 
phaes, Paris, ig30) 

"All matter can be brought back to a salt 
form. It is the world of God made material; 
in the specialized salt is a heavenly agent, 
a son of the divine fire of the sun is united 
with a passive earthliness into a salt in- 
carnation (...)True alchemy is 'Halchimia', 


salt-cooking (Greek 'hal', salt and 'chyo', 

I cook)." 

(M. Retschlag, "Von der Urmaterie", 1926, 
quoted in: Bernus, Das Geheimnis der 
Adepten, Sersheim, 1956) 

Jacob Böhme called the "secret fire" the 
"fire-crack" or "schrack", the lightning 
that "originates in the heavenly salitter". 
Inwardly, this salitter or secret saltpetre 
is "the seed of the entire godhead", and 
outwardly the roots of all material forces. 

M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 



l; , 

i v l W 


ti 



i//4. 

i vir 




•w % 

Hk 7 


Blake s visions 
were diverse and 
open toall kinds 
of associations. 

The burning figure 
signifies Rintrah, 
the personifica* 
tionof just wrath, 
but also Satan, 
egoism or Orc, the 
red demon of 
revolution. But it 
may also be an 
earthly figure, 
consumed in the 
fireof life from 
the view of two 
Eternals: "Life was 
(...)for Paracelsus 
a process of 
combustion. 'If I 
say I cannot burn, 
it is asmuch asif I 
said, I cannot live 
(...)". (W.Pagel, 
Paracelsus and the 
Neoplatonic and 
Gnostic Tradition, 
Cambridge, 1960) 

W. Blake, Milton, 
1804-1808 


488 


Opus Magnum: Fire 


Opus Magnum: Fire 


489 








Maier teils of a bird that is higher than the 
others. Its egg must be found and then 
carefully burned with a glowing sword. 

If Mars comes to the help of Vulcan, a bird 
will emerge which can vanquish fire and 
iron. 

The sword signifies the inner fire, the 
"Archaeus Naturae", which is driven and 
fired by the outer, martial fire of the oven. 
The sword is used as a Symbol "because 


fire also makes everything porous and full 
of holes, so that water can penetrate, 
dissolve and make the hard soft“. 

The egg is the chaotic prima materia which 
is destroyed in the Putrefaction, so that 
new life arises from it. "After death we too 
enter a much more perfect life." 

M. Maier, Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim, 1618 


Philosophical 

egg 


'Take the egg and 
strike it with a 
glowing sword." 


490 


Opus Magnum: Philosophical egg 


Philosophical 

egg 



When the mortal 
Castor is killed, 
Pollux, the immor* 
tal one of the two 
twin sons of Leda, 
alsoopts fora 
transitory lifeto 
remain united with 
his brother. From 
nowonthey spend 
one day in heaven 
with the gods and 
one in theunder- 
world. 

G. Stengelius, Ova 
Paschalia Sacro 
Emblemata, 
Ingolstadt, 1672 


The eggshell signi¬ 
fies mankind's lim¬ 
ited field of vision, 
"an immense/ 
Hardened shadow 
of all things upon 
our vegetated 
Earth,/enlarged 
mto dimension 
and deformed into 
indefinite space". 
(W. Blake, Milton, 
1804) After his 
death, man tears 
this "veilof na- 
ture" which 
freezes all life. 

W. Blake, The Gates 
of Paradise, 1793 



Opus Magnum: Philosophical egg 


49i 

















Philosophical 

egg 



ln the Aurora consurgens a passage is 
quoted from the Turba philosophorum, an 
Arab Compilation of Greek alchemical 
treatises and doctrines which circulated in 
Western Europe from the I3th Century 
onwards, and became one of the funda¬ 
mental works of European alchemy. 

The art, the text has it, is comparable to 
the egg, " in which four (things) are 
connected. Its outer Shell is the earth, and 
its white is water; but the very fine mem- 


brane attached to the Shell (...) is air (...). 
Further, its yolk is fire". [Turbaphilosopho¬ 
rum, Ed. J. Ruska, Berlin, 1931) The fifth 
element or quintessence is the young chick 
Alchemists compared the embryonic cen- 
tre of the yolk from which the chick devel- 
ops with the rising sun and the lapis. They 
called it the "red point of the sun in the 
centre". 

Aurora consurgens, early i6th Century 


492 


Opus Magnum: Philosophical egg 


Philosophical 

egg 



"The sun needs 
the moon, likethe 
cockthe hen." 

The cock, as the 
sun-animal, em- 
bodies the power 
of sulphur, said 
Maier. The egg 
from which the 
pair have hatched 
is called Latona, 
afterthe mother 
of Apollo and 
Diana. "Forthe 
philosophers(...) 
Sol, Luna and 
Latona are one, 
like cock and hen, 
becausethey 
hatched from an 
egg and leave 
eggs behind 
them." 

M. Maier, 

Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 



The lapis is the 'philosophers' egg', a 
"clarified body with the gift of immortal- 
ity, which (...) has risen above the four ele- 
ments into the purest centre as the fifth 
being of the whole nature, and is now 
much more splendid than his great par- 
ents, the sun and the moon". (L.C.S., Drei 
geheime Traktätlein, Mainz, 174g) 

D. Stolcius von Stolcenberg, Viridarium 
chymicum, Frankfurt, 1624 


Opus Magnum: Philosophical egg 


493 



































Philosophical 

egg 


The materia prima : 
"The egg of nature 
they call me, 
known to all the 
philosophers (...) 
Quicksilver or 
Mercury fine I am 
called in general 
(...) An old dragon, 
an old man, I am 
everywhere near 
and far(...) I fly 
away, unless/one 
binds me with 
measure./l have 
much of form, 
colour and shape/l 
carry in me the 
force of men and 
women." (Theoria 
Philosophiae Her- 
meticae , Hanover, 

1617) 

Heinrich Jams- 
thaler, Viatorum 
spagyricum , 1625 



494 


Opus Magnum: Philosophical egg 



Opus Magnum: Philosophical egg 


495 


Philosophical 

egg 

The rebis, which 
appears here in 
thethree main 
colours ofthe 
work, is the "two 
bodies of art, 
namely sun and 
moon (...) Man and 
woman and they 
give birth to four 
children". Those 
are the four ele- 
ments that the 
androgynous 
being holds in his 
right hand. In the 
centre is a mirror 
that presents the 
Opus or the prima 
materia in which, it 
is said, one can see 
the whole world. 

The egg that he 
holds in his other 
hand is supposed 
to show how, from 
the four elements 
-the Shell, the 
white, the mem- 
brane and theyolk 
-the quintessence 
arises at the cen¬ 
tre: the young 
chick orthe lapis. 

S. Trismosin, 
Splendor solis, 
London , 
i6th Century 












































Philosophical 


This inner heat is the 'hidden sulphur', 
whose glyph Mercury holds in his left 
hand. The snake's egg symbolizes the 
eternal circulation in the Work. 


"Mercury is cold and moist, white in its 
appearance and cold in its moisture, but 
deep within (...) it is red, which is hot and 
dry. Hence the old masters called it an 
egg". (J. I. Hollandus, Die Hand der Philo¬ 
sophen, Vienna, 1746) 


Speculum veritatis, ijth Century 


Opus Macnum: Philosophical egg 



Opus Macnum: Philosophical egg 


497 


Philosophical 

egg 


"The egg pre- 
serves life and be- 
ing," says Paracel¬ 
sus. "(...) there- 
fore know that air 
is nothing other 
than chaos, and 
chaos nothing but 
the white of an 
egg, and the egg 
is heaven and 
earth." ( Para- 
granum II, 1530) 


Detail from 
H. Bosch, Garden 
of Delights, c. 1510 


Await the star (of 
David), call Mary. 


G. Stengelius, Ova 
Paschalia Sacro 
Emblemata, Ingol¬ 
stadt, 1672 












Matrix 


ln Hildegard von 
Bingen's fourth 
vision, there 
appeared a "vast 
glow, which flamed 
as if in countless 
eyes, and aimed 
its four corners at 
thefour points of 
the compass". This 
istheomniscience 
of God. at the 
middle of which 
"there appears 
anotherglow, like 
red skyatmorn- 
ing, gleaming in 
purple lightning". 
From this heavenly 
matrix comes the 
red fiery sphere of 
the soul, which 
gives life to the 
embryo in the 
mother's body. 

Figures appear 
bearing various 
fatty cheeses in 
clay vessels, some 
of them containing 
decay. This is an 
imageof man's 
semen with its 
various tenden- 
cies. 

Hildegard von 
Bingen, Scivias 
(Rupertsberg 
Codex), i2th Cen¬ 
tury 




HUp M- r - ‘ 

■ '?^ ® 

P W & 

> ä 


tmm 

gH 


498 


Opus Magnum: Matrix 


Matrix 



Piero della 
Francesca, 
Madonna with 
saints, Tempera on 
wood, c. 1470 


Opus Magnum: Matrix 


499 























































Matrix 


Matrix 



ln this Illustration, Fludd followed the In¬ 
terpretation of Genesis in the first book of 
the Zohar, which provides a highly visual 
description of the way in which, in the 
concealed depths of the divine unground, 
the En-Soph, first forms a fog, from which 
a spring then erupts. In this, the primal 
point, called "Reshith", lights up, the 
beginning, "the first word of the creation 


of all things". The Cabalists identified this 
primal point as the wisdom of God, his 
"Sophia". It corresponds to the second 
Sefira Chochma or Hochma. The seed of all 
things lies folded into it. "He created all 
forms in it, carved into it all its character- 
istics." 

R. Fludd, Philosophia Sacra, Frankfurt, 1626 



la.turae 


eculum 


' A Unc rtU« 


"Mirrorof all 
nature and Symbol 
of art." 


The "Golden Chain of Homer", which Fludd 
identified as the "Invisible Fire", leads 
from the hand of God via Virgin Nature to 
the Ape of Art. This represents the 
intellectual and technical abilities with 
which man imitates nature and seeks to 
improve it. 

Nature, the nursing mother of all things, 
connects the divine fiery heaven, the 
astral, ethereal heaven and the sublunary, 
elemental world. She is the "soul of the 
world", the mediator between the divine 


spirit and material expression. "On her 
breast is the true sun, on her belly is 
the moon." Her heart gives the stars their 
light, and her womb, the spirit of the 
moon, is the filter through which the astral 
influences reach the earth. "Her right 
foot Stands on the earth, her left foot in 
the water, thus showing the connection 
between Sulphur and Mercury, without 
which nothing can be created." 

Robert Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. I, 
Oppenheim, 1617 


500 


Opus Magnum: Matrix 


Opus Magnum: Matrix 


501 





Matrix 


Wisdom is the fe- 
male emanation 
of God, through 
which his spiritual 
seed is realized, 
first in the uttered 
word of heavenly 
Sophia, then in 
matter through 
the womb of 
Nature. The latter 
isthe fallen, lower 
Sophia, and is 
identified with 
Mercury, the root 
of all metals. 

From hertwo 
breasts flowsthe 
red, sulphurous 
"sweat of the 
sun", and the 
white Mercurial 
"virgin's milk", 
which together 
produce the fruit 
of her womb, the 
tincture. Anyone 
who wants to see 
her naked should 
"seek thefriend- 
shipof Archaeo, 
the trusted door- 
keeper". 

Geheime Figuren 
der Rosenkreuzer , 
Altona , 1785 



Th« Heavenly and Earthly Eve, Moth< 


i«r of all Creaturee in Heaven and on Earth. 


The Star of the Hinge from the Orient. 


God i» an elcrnal unrrraird. infinite, 
tnpernalural, *elf»u»taining, Iwavrnly 
ond rsisting »piril «ho hoth lavniiw 
in th« rourse of naturr and lim* a 
visible, bodily, mortal man. 


Naturr ia a rreoled, natural. limdy. 
definite, spiritual, fxisling *n«l bodily 
«|«rit. an imagr. likenns and thadow, 
fa»hioned aftrr Ihr uncrrateri rlrrnal 
spirit, hiddrn and. yrt visible 


OCULUS DIVINUS 

prr qunn Deus vidil & rrravit 


OCULUS NATU RAE 

r Cnrli, prr qoen» Natura vMtal 


Evrrytbing hulh iu end! and 
annooncrs it« brginning. 

LUMEN GRATIAE. ERGON 
tunt duo 

Heavenly Eve, 
The New Birth. 


VIRGIN 


SOPHIA. 


Livcty. mortal. effektive. prriiJt- 
able and Io br rrborn apain. 

LUMEN NATl’RAE. PA RERGON 
FR ATU ES. 

Earthly Eve, 

The Old Birth. 

O. Man, O. Man, brlhink Ihre hnw 
Nature it a great anrld. and hath 
brcome man. 

lunorenl.l give lu»rk. Dt«jd»r it 
not 10* Itune o«n thamr. 


Innorent 1 rreeierd. Dammed 
he. who doth not beiirvr. 


9 SK&S 


Micto COjaS 
ttifiuxfM C 


TINCTURA PIIYSICA 
Virgin 1 » milk and »wret of Sun » 
mothrr of ai ehildren and a pure 
virgin. 

PHILOSOPHORUM 

. VENITE. 

ARRICJTK. ARIWC.ITE. uurc. 
Whuevrr hath rar» to hear, shaD 
not br rallctl upon l««o luutlly. 


TINCTimA COELESTIS. 
S. S. Sarramenla. ■ 


(w AT EhYB LOOD Vinst rvmen-N 
V J V Vtum Divinum. 


ROSA CRUCIS 

VENITE. 

YIDKTK. VIDETE. VIDETI 
Wltoevrr Itolh cyr» to »ec. cnn 
will sc* right ly. 


uurrcu»TJi 
7 RAVENS \ 7 SPHER1 


7 EAGLES / 7 LIONS 


rafLPWt VW. 


fi The wondrr-bird 

' * phornis with it* | 

throa rgp. the 

tH? J ** ^ °* *“'• 

yitfj' the aecond halb 
/ lwo yolks, in the 

i / third a youug 

/ cork peck» 

O. not too much. I scratch my 
brad quite frightened. 
pauci vero electi. 


huUrttf 


PRACTICA 


I know il and lltrrron 
. I »tand! 
multi »unt voceli 


MAGUS 

thi» on« tim« and nt 
Exitus acta prohabit. 


StMMMSTA 

O! Harpocratea. 

Dominus providebit 


502 


Opus Macnum: Matrix 





Thetreegrowing 
out of the Mercur¬ 
ial virgin mother, 
which bears "in- 
effable fruits of 
diverse effect", 
"comes from the 
seed of man (birds 
on the left) and 
of women (bird to 
the right)". The 
honouring of 
Sophia as the mys- 
tical bride of the 
philosophers or 
'mistress of the 
inner world', as 
Georg von Welling 
called her, often 
intersects with 
worship of the 
divine Mercurial 
water. Mercury is 
called 'ourdear 
virgin', because, 
like Mary, he con- 
ceivesthe 'solu- 
tion of heaven’, 
and then brings it 
forth as a cleansed 
lapis. 


Hieronymus 
Reussner , Pandora, 
Basle, 1582 





Matrix 




Nature advisesthe 
"aimlessly wan- 
dering alchemist" 
to leave the nar- 
row circle of 
mechanical labor- 
atory chymistry: 
"You will never 
attain knowledge 
of anything if you 
come not to my 
forge."This forge 
isthe tree that 
grows from the 
three roots Miner- 
alia, Vegetativa 
and Sensitiva. 
Here, the earthly 
germ of all metals, 
animals and plants 
is separated by 
lengthy cooking 
into the four 
elements, and 
sublimated into 
the uppermost 
blossom of the 
elixirorthe 
"vegetablegold". 

Alchemy follows 
the work of na- 
ture, but tries to 
shortenthe ripen- 
ing process. 

Miniature painting 
byJehan Perreal', 
painterat the court 
of Margaretha of 
Austria, 1516 



504 


Opus Magnum: Matrix 






Matrix 



"Letnature be thy 
guide." 


M. Maier, 
Atalanta fugiens, 
Oppenheim, 1618 


The alchemists' attitude towards nature 
was an ambivalent one. They all wanted to 
follow her, some as her ape, trying to emu- 
late her work in all its parts, "for what is 
made outside the limitations of nature is 
either an error or something very close". 

(J. d'Espagnet, Das Geheime Werk) "Nature 
cannot be braked or forced (...) far from it! 
She rules over us, not we over her". 
(Heinrich Khunrath) 

Others desire her fruits, "but they des- 
pised nature itself and corrupted her (...) 

I was in their hands, to an extent sub- 
jected to their violence", Nature laments, 
"but they knew me not." (T. Vaughan) 


Paracelsus stated that alchemy must per¬ 
fect imperfect nature, for it is "so subtle 
and sharp in its things that without great 
art it will not be used". ( Paragranum , 1530) 

Anyone who wishes to do laboratory work, 
according to Michael Maier, must bring 
four things beneath one heading: nature, 
reason, experience and the study of the 
many, specialist writings. He calls them the 
four wheels of the philosophical chariot. 
The footprints of nature are the pioneers, 
reason the walking-stick, experience the 
spectacles and the study of the writings 
the lantern "which opens the understand- 
ing and gives the keen reader a light." 


Opus Magnum: Matrix 


505 





































Matrix 


according to Fulcanelli, represent themes 
from alchemy. According to Victor Hugo, 
the cathedral as a whole represents the 
most satisfying summation of Hermetic 
Science; it is its Mute Book in stone. 

The figure of the woman is the embodi- 
ment of alchemy, touching heaven with 
her head. The two books in her right hand 
refer to the exoteric, open side and the 
esoteric, hidden side of alchemistic teach- 
ing. The ladder is a hieroglyph of the 
patience required for the Work. The nine 
Steps presumably derive from the teach- 
ings of the Pseudo-Dionysius Areopagita. 

Fulcanelli Le Mystere des Cathedrales, 

Paris, 1964 


For the German poet Conrad Celtis (1459-1508) Philosophia signified 
the universality of all spheres of nature and the spirit. 

On the obelisk before the lap of Sophia in the depiction that 
Albrecht Dürer made for his friend Celtis, there are a total of nine 
steps reaching up to her bosom, including the seven Liberal Arts. At 
the bottom is grammar, at the top, music, the all-embracing theory 
of the harmonic laws. The Greek letter Phi acts as the foundation of 
the arts. According to the theory of Dieter Wuttke, author of a de- 
tailed study of this woodcut (Dieter Wuttke, 'Humanismus als inte- 
grative Kraft', in: Dazwischen , Baden-Baden, 1995). it Stands for the 
vita philargica, "sensual life (as) the natural, first stage of every 
human being", while the concluding sign theta refers to the vita theo- 
rica, the highest level of pure contemplation. 

The three books in Sophia's hand stand for the three areas into 
which philosophy is divided according to Plato: rationalis, moralis 
and naturalis. The five nail-points on the cover of the book refer to 
the five senses as the basis of all experience. The wreath surrounding 
the throne symbolizes the four seasons. To these are assigned the 
four outermost heads: the four winds, elements, temperaments and 
ages. The four medals on the wreath represent the stages of the his- 
tory of philosophy. Ptolemy, in the upper medallion, represents its 
Egyptian-Chaldean origin in the sphere of astronomy. The right-hand 



The main portal of the Cathedral of Notre 
Dame in Paris bears a sequence of twelve 
late i3th-century half-reliefs, all of which. 


506 


Opus Magnum: Matrix 



US 


>ssep 


mm 


HQuicquid babrrCcelum qmdT triu qmd Acr 8C jfquoio 

•2? Quicqmdinlrtimanu »c^bu$«StiJCpoTCS<-i- 

ETd«usmr<n oquicquid fäcrrigmus orK« 

L Phil osophu mco pc<f>oRecuncra ^cro 


Opus Magnum: Matrix 


507 


medal shows the Greek Plato, who interpreted the hieroglyphic wis- 
doms of the Egyptians and handed them down to the Romans. Cicero 
and Virgil worked on the poetic form of philosophy and the Ger¬ 
mans, represented by Albertus, on its continuation. Albertus refers 
primarily to Albertus Magnus (ng3-i28o), the scholastic scholar and 
Student of nature, to whom a series of alchemical treatises have been 
attributed. In Wuttke's view, though, it also refers to Albrecht Dürer, 
whom Celtis celebrated as a new Albertus, because he added the 
spheres of painting and art theory to Philosophia. 


Inscription, top: Matrix 

"The Greeks call 
me Sophia, the 
Romans Sapientia. 

The Egyptians and 
Chaldaeans in- 
vented me, the 
Greeks wrote me 
down, the Romans 
handed me down, 
the Germans 
expanded me." 


Inscription, bot¬ 
tom: "That which 
constitutes the 
essence of heaven, 
earth, air and wa¬ 
ter, and that which 
embraces the life 
of man, as well as 
that which the 
fiery God creates 
in the whole 
world: I, Philo¬ 
sophia, bear all in 
my breast." 

Woodcut from the 
'Amores ' of Conrad 
Celtis, Albrecht 
Dürer, Nuremberg, 
1502 













Matrix 


The title plate to 
Kircher's Ars 
magna sciendi 
(1669) is clearly 
derived from 
Dürer's 'Philo- 
sophia'. Even the 
inscription on the 
plinth of Sophia's 
throne is entirely 
in the Spirit of 
Conrad Celtis' con* 
cept of education: 
"Nothing is more 
sublime than 
knowing every- 
thing". 

In her hand she 
holds thealphabet 
of the Lullian art, 
whose twenty* 
seven hieroglyphic 
keys are supposed 
to contain the 
whole of human 
knowledge. The 
fifteen individual 
commandments of 
knowledge that 
Kircherseeksto 
bring together 
through the mech- 
anized logicof 
Lullus are written 
on the title sash. 

A. Kircher, Ars 
magna sciendi’, 
Amsterdam, 166g 



508 


Opus Macnum: Matrix 


Matrix 



509 


Opus Macnum: Matrix 


strength (Jachin and Boas), refer tothe 
curse of mortality. 


But in the striking similarity of the suckling 
mother-figure to the representations of 
Sophia in hermetic literature, Giorgione 
also suggests the possibility of an ascen- 
sion from this nigredo state of earthly 
existence. 


Giorgione, La Tempesta, c. 1506, Venice, 
Accademia 


Salvatore Settis has revealed a layer of 
meaning in Giorgione's famous painting, 
in which the mysterious scenery points, 
as an allegory, to the Situation of the first 
human couple afterthe Fall, now realizing 
that they are exposed to the storm of di* 
vine anger. (Giorgione's 'Gewitter', Berlin 
edition, 1982) 


The two broken columns from Solomon's 
temple, representing steadiness and 









Matrix 




Matrix 



"Make Lato white and tear up your books. 
lest it tear up your hearts." 

Lato is generally used as a term for brass 
and other copper alloys, but it is also a 
commonly*used code name for matter 
after the phase of decay, when it is im- 
pregnated by Jupiter, the first Strip of sil- 
ver in the night sky of the nigredo, and 
slowly begins to dry. Then it becomes La- 
tona, the mother of the twins Diana-Moon 
(white stone) and Apollo-Sun (red stone). 
After its complete purification or whiten- 


ing by fire. Azoth or sodium salt, it brings 
both into the world in sequence. 

In this phase of whitening one should tear 
up the books, most of which, as Maier 
said, are so full of "obscure sayings (...) 
that the author himself can hardly under- 
stand them". We need these no longer, 
because what follows is "pure child's play 
and women's work". 

M. Maier , Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim , 1618 



Because Actaeon the hunter has seen the 
proud virgin Diana naked while bathing, 
she turns him into a deer, and he is then 
torn to pieces by his own bloodhounds. 

Giordano Bruno interprets this legend in 
his last work Ofthe heroic passions (1585) 
as a parable ofthe drama ofthe process of 
knowledge. 

"Here Actaeon represents the intellect, on 
the hunt for divine wisdom at the moment 
of grasping divine beauty." Just when 
he thinks he grasps Sophia in the glass of 
outer nature, and lifts the veil from her 
lunar mystery, he himself becomes the 
victim or object of his own striving. "He 


saw himself transformed into that which 
he sought, and realized that he himself 
had become a much-desired prey for his 
hounds, his thoughts. Because he had 
actually drawn the godhead into himself, 
it was no longer necessary to seek them 
outside himself." 

Actaeon is Bruno's new heroic man who, 
killed by his many large hounds, is radic- 
ally inverted. "Here, his life in the mad, 
sensuous, blind and fantastic world comes 
to an end, and from now on he leads a 
spiritual life. He lives the life of the gods." 

Titian , Diana and Actaeon, 1559 


Opus Magnum: Matrix 


Opus Magnum: Matrix 


510 


511 






















Matrix 


Fountain 


"Set the toad on 
the woman's 
breast, that it may 
suck, and that the 
woman shall die, 
andthetoad 
waxes very great 
with milk." 



The philosophers, according to Maier, 
would never put such a poisonous animal 
to a woman's breast, "were the toad not 
her own mirade-birth and fruit, which she 
had brought into the world as a monster". 
When it has suckled its fill, the white 
Mercurial woman dies, becoming the red 
sulphur of the philosophers. "Seek to 
prepare from it a medicine which may 
draw all the poison from your heart." 

The toad here refers to the solid sul- 
phurous component of the Prima Materia. 
According to Ruland, Virgin's Milk is a 
code name for the "Mercurial water, the 
Dragon's Tail; it washes and coagulates 
without any manual labour". (Martin 
Ruland, Lexicon Alchemiae, Frankfurt, 1612) 


"The old masters called Mercurius Virgin's 
Milk, for Mercurius is the food, nutrition 
and dwelling place of all metals, since it 
goes in and out of all parts of the metals, 
just as a woman's suckling of her child 
goes through and nourishes, for Mercurius 
is the food and mother of all metals 
(J. I. Hollandus, Chymische Schriften, 
Vienna edition, 1746) 

Because of its ability to condense and 
solidify the matter that it passes through, 
this milk is also called the 'eagle's ember' 
or 'our rubber'. "I teil you that our rubber 
is strongerthan gold, and those who know 
it consider it higher and more worthy than 
gold."(H. Khunrath, Vom hylealischen 
Chaos , Frankfurt edition, 1708) 

M. Maier , Atalanta fugiens, Oppenheim , 1618 



"As the clouds passed away, I saw a lovely 
white Virgin rising from the earth, she 
pressed her breasts, and from her virgin's 
milk she made a healing butter, with which 
she wished to bring the dead back to life 
(...) (then) I saw that after her hard press* 
ing, because she would not stop, a thick 
red blood flowed from her breasts, for 
there was no milk left. This blood sullied 
the butter, so Vulcan dared to take the 
butter away, but the virgin wept, and said: 
The milk, the butter and the blood are all 
good, but each has its own effect (...)." 

(J. de Monte-Snyders, Metamorphosis 
Planetarum, Vienna, 1774) 


The Arab doctor and philosopher Avicenna 
(Ibn Sina, g8o-i037) said that the virgin's 
milk consists of two waters. ("Mineralia", 
in: Artis Auriferae, Basle, 1593) These are 
the lunar and the solar liquids, of which 
the "mercury of the philosophers" con¬ 
sists. The two must be cooked together by 
Vulcan, so that the philosophical sea is 
transformed into gold. 

D. Stolcius v. Stolcenberg , Viridarum 
chymicum, Frankfurt , 1624 


512 


Opus Magnum: Matrix 


Opus Magnum: Fountain 


513 





















Fountain 


"There are three 
kinds of stone and 
three kinds of salt, 
of which all our 
mastery consists: 
namely, the min¬ 
eral, the vegetable 
and the animal. 
There are also 
three kinds of 
water, namely Sol, 
Luna and Mercury. 
Mercury is min¬ 
eral; Luna is vege¬ 
table, because it 
absorbs two 
colours, white and 
red; Sol is animal, 
because it absorbs 
three things, 
namely solid 
bonding, white 
and red; it is called 
'the great animal'. 
Sal ammoniac is 
won from it. Luna 
is called 'vege¬ 
table', and sal 
alkali comes from 
it. But Mercury is 
called the 'mineral 
stone', and from 
it comes common 
salt." (Rosarium 
philosophorum , 
Frankfurt, 1550, 
Weinheim edition, 
1992) 


Turba philosopho¬ 
rum , i6th Century 




514 


Opus Magnum: Fountain 


Fountain 



"We are the beginning and the first nature 
of metals/Through us art makes the 
supremetincture. 

No spring or water is like me/l make poor 
and rieh healthy 

And I am corrosive, poisonous and 
deadly." 


The inscription on the basin of the foun¬ 
tain reads: "The mineral, the vegetable 
and the animal Mercury are one." Beneath 
the headings of "virgin's milk", "sharp 
vinegar" and "water of life" the mercurial 
liquids flow into the basin. They "form a 
single pure, clear water; it purifies every- 
thing, and yet it contains everything nec- 
essary." 


Opus Magnum: Fountain 


515 







Fountain 


Rabbi Abraham 
Eleazar, the mys- 
terious teacher 
of Nicolas Flamel, 
is Standing on a 
church-like 
athanor with the 
glyph of the pri- 
material antimony 
at itstip.The 
stream at the bot* 
tom symbolizes 
the long but not 
dangerous "moist 
way", which 
passes through 
many distillations. 
The upper, short 
path of the quick 
weasel is the dan¬ 
gerous, dry path 
of the secret salt- 
fire, in which salt- 
petre plays an 
important part. 

A. Eleazar , Uraltes 
chymisches Werk , 
Leipzig , 1760 



516 


Opus Macnum: Fountain 


Fountain 



Inscription: 
"Wan(n)ausse(n) 
ist uns(er) Ster(n): 
also geschaffen 
feureg(er) nattur" 
(Whenourstaris 
out: then created 
of fiery nature) 

(Deciphered 
thanks to Herr 
Reiner Reisinger.) 


The two-headed dragon-fountain symbol¬ 
izes the bipolar essence of the Mercurial 
lapis, which Ulmannus called the "water of 
modesty" or "stone clear white and red". 
Red is Sol, blood, male, and white is Luna, 
flesh and female. 

All things are, bytheir first and most 
perfect quality, created from the fire of 
the sun, which represents God the Father. 


"Everything has come from the Sun, 
everything must become the Sun again". 
We receive "this outer fiery sun to our 
flesh and blood". But the inner sun is the 
soul or "red sky at morning". This attracts 
the fire of the outer sun and leads it into 
the intestines. 

Buch der Heiligen Dreifaltigkeit , 
early I 5 th Century 


Opus Macnum: Fountain 


517 






















































Fountain 


Opus Magnum: Fountain 


Death and corrup- 
tion arethe key to 
higher life, the 
fundament and 
the source of the 
whole Work. After 
the moisture has 
been drained from 
the dead body, 
"each 'thing' 
needsfire (Sagit- 
tarius), until the 
'spirit' ofthat 
'body' is trans- 
formed and left 
fora numberof 
nights, like man in 
his grave, and 
turnsto dust. 
After this has hap- 
pened, God will 
give him back his 
soul and his spirit 
(...)and improved 
after theirde- 
struction, just as 
man, after his 
resurrection, be- 
comes stronger 
and youngerthan 
he was in this 
world." {Turba 
philosophorum , 
Ed.J.Ruska. 

Berlin. 1931) 


Aries, Leo and 
Sagittarius mark 
the periods of 
timein which the 
three operations 
of the Work take 
place. 


De Alchimia , 
Leyden , 1526 


Fountain 





The half-bowthat 
God placed in the 
douds as a sign 
of reconciliation 
after the Flood, is 
closed by the 
blood of Christ 
intothe roundness 
of the lapis. And 
hetookthe cup 
(...Jsaying, "Drink 
from itall of you. 
Forthis is my 
blood, the blood 
of the covenant." 
Matthew 26, 
27-28) Through his 
sacrificial death he 
had the power 
todrawall base 
metals to himself 
and thus to enable 
them to escape 
the Flood of the 
Putrefaction ("and 
there was no more 
sea" Rev. 21,1) into 
the newly opened 
Paradise. Here lies 
the "stream of 
living water": the 
three-in-onetinc* 
tural power-spring 
of eternal life. 

S. Michelspacher , 
Cabala , Augsburg , 
1616 


Opus Magnum: Fountain 


519 













Christ-Lapis 


"After my great 
suffering and tor 
ture/1 am risen, 
clarified, and im- 
maculate." 


"Thy stone, 
Chymist, is noth¬ 
ing; the corner¬ 
stone that I mean/ 
is my goldtincture 
and the stone of 
all the philo- 
sophers." (Angelus 
Silesius, Cheru¬ 
binischer Wanders¬ 
mann, 1657) 


Rosarium 

philosophorum, 

1SSO 


Opus Magnum: Christ-Lapis 



Christ-Lapis 


)ua ct CadüJiftLCcL C/iriftianumi 


£tO ftpttntrion. 




•muifuvjfuej 


believed to have healing powers. In his 
view, all illnesses are based on false, self- 
centred imaginings, which poison the 
astral body (the "mummy"), and thus 
pollute the blood. The whole balance of 
the elements in the body is thereby finally 
destroyed. 


In 1638, the Silesian Student of Böhme, 
Abraham von Franckenberg (1598-1652) 
wrote that he wanted to learn Hebrew 
"to use it fruitfully in my meditations, 
which are to some extern aimed at geo- 
metrical and arithmetical demonstra- 
tions". (Quoted in: W.E. Peuckert, Das 
Rosenkreuz, Berlin edition, 1973) 


Th ree kinds of medicine were available: 
the Cabbalistic, from the spirit and the 
word of Christ, the magical in the medita 
tion of the healing serpent, and the 
Chymical, with wine and oil. 


His book Raphael oder Arzt-Engel, which 
he completed in the same year, reveals his 
preoccupation with Cabalistic combina- 
tions of letters (Gematrie and Temurah). 
Like Giordano Bruno, whose writings he 
knew, Franckenberg was concerned with 
the production of magic seals, which he 


A. von Franckenberg, Raphael oder Arzt- 
Engel, 1639 (reprinted, 1925) 


Opus Magnum: Christ-Lapis 










Christ-Lapis 


Christ-Lapis 


Inscriptions: "The 
blessed lapis con- 
tains everything 
within itself." 

"All virtue is effort 
in struggle". In 
alchemy the cross 
is used as a glyph 
forthe crucible. 

"Infact, the cru¬ 
cible isthe place 
where the Prime 
Mattersuffersthe 
passion like Christ 
himself. There it 
dies, to be 
reawakened, puri- 
fied, spiritualized 
andtransformed." 
(Fulcanelli, Le 
Mystere des Cath 4 - 
drales, Paris, 1964) 
Fulcanelli refersto 
the fact thatthe 
three nail-holes on 
the cross were 
read as a reference 
to the "three 
purifications with 
sword and fire". 

Musaeum Hermeti- 
cum, Frankfurt/ 
Leipzig, 1749 



522 


Opus Magnum: Christ-Lapis 



Albion, represent- 
ing fallen human- 
ity, is revived by 
the pictureof the 
redeemer: 

"Awake! Awake O 
sleeper of the land 
of shadows; wake! 
expand!/1 am in 
you and you in me, 
mutual in love di- 
vine." 

Jesus is "imagina- 
tion orthe divine 
body in all men", 
the"sole, univer¬ 
sal form" in which 
all things are con- 
tained "in their 
Eternal Forms". 

Albion becomes 
what he sees. 

Here, Blake isfol- 
lowing Paracelsian 
doctrine: What 
manthinks, "he is, 
and athing is also 
as hethinks. If he 
thinks a fire, he is 
a fire; if he thinks 
a war, he is a war". 
{De virtute imagina- 
tiva, 1526) 

W. Blake, 

Jerusalem, 

1804-1820 


Opus Magnum: Christ-Lapis 


523 














































Christ-Lapis 


Mary and Jesus are 
one substance 
which is embodied 
in a Condensed, 
solid state by the 
mother, and in a 
dissolved, spiritual 
state bytheson. 
The sun symbol- 
izes God the 
Fatherandthe 
twelve stars the 
elements in the 
three forms of 
appearance, "of 
the spirit (son), of 
the soul (father) 
and ofthe corpse 
(mother)". In the 
five-part "lily blue 
saturn luna(...)is 
our Lord martyr". 

The seven planets, 
metals and virtues 
are assigned to his 
extremities, his 
body and the 
wound in his side. 

Buch der Heiligen 
Dreifaltigkeit, early 
iSth Century 



524 


Opus Macnum: Christ-Lapis 


Christ-Lapis 











Frater Vincentius 
Koffsky, a I5th- 
century monk of a 
Danzig Order of 
preachers, whose 
identity has not 
been historically 
proven, is shown 
catching thetinc- 
tural blood ofthe 
mercurial Christ, 
who is crucified on 
thetree ofthe 
seven metals. 
"Here study, 
meditate, sweat, 
work, cook and do 
not be put off by 
cooking, and there 
will open up to 
you, a healing 
flood which 
springs from the 
heart ofthe son 
ofthe great world, 
in the face of all 
fragility of all 
material things (...) 
Now learn, natur- 
allyand artfully, 
to draw from this 
Catholic medicinal 
fountain ofthe 
living water and 
the oil of joy." 

(H. Khunrath, Vom 
hylealischen Chaos, 
Frankfurt edition, 
1708) 

From: Fratris 
Vincentii Koffskhii, 
Hermetische 
Schriften, 
Nuremberg, 1786 


Opus Macnum: Christ-Lapis 


525 





























Blood 







"There are seven kinds of ore (...) but the 
alchemists want to prove that there is only 
one ore, nanjely gold: for it is perfect and 
the other six are on the way to perfection, 
to becoming gold. And they say that the 
six are ill, and that the illnesses (make it 
possible) to cleanse them in various ways, 
by making gold from them and giving 
them the colour, the weight and the con- 


sistency of gold in the fire. They also say 
that they are all but one ore, because they 
all have their origin and their birth in 
quicksilver, moisture and sulphurous earth 
(...)." ("Peder Mänsson, Bergbuch, i6th 
Century", in: Otto Johannsen, Peder 
Mänssons Schriften, Berlin, 1941) 

La Sagesse des anciens, i8th Century 


526 


Opus Macnum: Blood 


Blood 





CHRISTI 
TESTAi X ■ . ; 
MENTAj 

nFäF I 

i mi 


KESn 


Thefiery soul in 
its natural primal 
state - represent- 
ed in the lower in- 
verted heart - lies 
"in the Father's 
quality" in the fire 
of wrath. Through 
the sacrament of 
baptism, however, 
the name Jesus is 
revealed in the 
name Jehovah, and 
the soul receives 
theson's fire of 
love: "The father 
baptizes with fire, 
the son with 
light." His heav- 
enly blood trans- 
forms anger into 
love. 

Man must, in his 
imagination, com- 
pletely enter into 
Christ's sacrificial 
death, "thus there 
will grow(...) a 
true Christ, a 
grape on Christ's 
vine". 

J. Böhme, 

Theosophische 

Wercke, 

Amsterdam, 1682 


Opus Macnum: Blood 


527 















































Blood 


Blood 


"ln dumb silence I 
held my peace. So 
my agony was 
quickened, and my 
heart burned 
within me. My 
mind wandered as 
the fever grew." 
(Psalm 3g, 2-3) 

J. Mannich, Sacra 
Emblem ata, 
Nuremberg, 1624 



In Jehovah's fire of 
wrath (Tetragram- 
maton), according 
to Böhme, the 
heart, "as the 
basic source of 
human penitence 
is opened" and, in 
Christ's fire of love 
"reunited and 
tempered". 

J. Böhme, Libri 
apologetici, 1764 



528 


Opus Macnum: Blood 



According to Fludd's theories, the funda¬ 
mental life-functions of the organism are 
set in motion by an astral "sal volatile", 
which enters the organism through the 
respiratory organs and maintains the spark 
of life in heart and brain. Every motor 
function, including the circulation of the 
blood, depends on the presence of this 
subtle salt. 

The blood transports through the body 
the life-giving divine Spirit, which reaches 
man from the sun via the four winds. 


"Come, 0 wind, come from every quarter 
and breathe into these slain, that they may 
come to life." (Ezekiel, 37, g) 

According to Fludd, the heart is the sun of 
the microcosm, the source of life. When 
his friend William Harvey discovered the 
circulation of the blood in 1615, his views 
were reinforced. 

R. Fludd, Pulsus Seu Nova Et Arcana Pulsuum 
Historia, Frankfurt, c. 1630 


Opus Macnum: Blood 


529 



Blood 

In the upper half of the picture Albion, fallen humanity, collapses 
exhausted in the border area between the palm of spirituality and 
the oak of materialism. "The divine sun with the name of Jesus en¬ 
tered Adam's night, Adam's sleep (...) The first Adam feil down (...) 
and died the death of death: the other Adam (Christ) took the death 
of death within himself, as if captured in Adam's humanity." (Jacob 
Böhme, De signatura rerum) 

The lower half of the picture shows Albion's female emanation, 
Jerusalem, lying death-like in the middle of the "sea of time and 
space". The winged "Cherub of concealment" is still holding her 
back from her marriage to the Christ-Lamb. But this Satanic shade is 
only a feeble imitation of the upper Divine Spirit-Sun. It is Creative 
space-time, for which Blake used the image of a winged red blood 
corpuscle. 

According to Böhme, blood is the "tincture of eternity", in 
which "the body ascends into the brilliance of the sun". (J. Böhme, 

De signatura rerum) And Blake: "Every Time less than a pulsation of 
the artery/ls equal in its period & value to Six Thousand Years,/ For 
in this Period the Poet's Work is Done; and all the Great/ Events of 
Time Start forth & are conceiv'd in such a Period,/ Within a Moment, 
a Pulsation of the Artery." The earth is an infinite open plane, and its 
spherical form an illusion. "The Microscope knows not of this, nor 
theTelescope; they alter/The ratio of the Spectator's Organs, but 
leave Objects untouch'd./ For every Space larger than a red Globule 
of Man's blood/ Is visionary, and is created by the Hammer of Los;/ 
And every Space smaller than a Globule of Man's blood opens/ Into 
Eternity of which this vegetable Earth is but a shadow." (W. Blake, 
Milton) 

"Space: what you damn well have to see. Through spaces smaller 
than red globules of man's blood they creepy-crawl after Blake's 
buttocks into eternity of which this vegetable world is but a shadow. 
Hold to the now, the here, through which all future plunges to the 
past." (James Joyce, Ulysses) 

III. right: 

William Blake , 
Jerusalem, 
1804-1820 


530 

Opus Macnum: Blood 





I lorr/i fro . /: ' > me. o; 

— - - - - • 

\ex:tre jrujuiß ojucrv j:u> J ^rytlDcoii . arvir**? 
xunder u 'St 'Sr r:> <m Sj^ctrcusf' wratn agcur* 
t Clari SJan ; crrgariß. and. inest cfelrtrpul 
uf'/tljOisoke sny •Sfi*cfre~ngcUaJSt tAu;c~ut Sr 


clW ll 'M de 
' JÖ/foWt 


Opus Macnum: Blood 


531 






















Microcosm 


"The world is primarily the totality of everything, 
consisting of heaven and earth (...). 

In the second mystical sense, however, 
it is appropriately identified as man. 

For, as the world has grown out of four elements, 
so does man consist of four humours 
(Isidore ofSeville , A.D. 560-636, De natura rerum) 












Human Form 
Divine 


534 


The magical vision of the universe of 
Agrippa von Nettesheim (1486-1535), 
which left traces in the work of Dürer, is 
influenced by the Gnostic doctrines of 
Hermes Trismegistus, which were circulat- 
ing in Marsilio Ficino's translations. 
According to these doctrines, man was not 
only made in God's image, but also gifted 
with his omnipotence. Agrippa freed man 
from the tiered cosmos, and placed him at 
the centre of creation. "Only man enjoys 
the honour of participating in everything 
(...) He participates in matter in his own 
subject, and in the elements through 
his fourfold body; in plants through his 
vegetable strength; in animals through the 


life of the senses; in the heavens through 
the ethereal spirit (...). in the angels 
through his wisdom; in God through the 
epitome of everything (...) and just as 
God knows everything, so man can also 
come to know everything that can be 
known (...)." ("De occulta philosophia", in: 
Agrippa, Die magischen Werke , Wiesbaden 
edition, ig88) He can even direct the astral 
influences at his will. 

Agrippa took the geometrical figures of 
"man as the measure of the universe" from 
Vitruvius' figures in Francesco Giorgio's 
Exempada, to which he presumably had 
access in manuscript form. 



Microcosm: Human Form Divine 



Human Form 
Divine 



"Man, as the most beautiful and perfect 
work of God, has a (...) more harmonic 
bodily structure than other creatures, and 
contains all numbers, measures, weights, 
movements, elements, and everything, he 
is the most sublime masterpiece, come to 
perfection (...)" There is no part of the hu¬ 
man body "that does not correspond to a 
sign of the zodiac, a star, an intelligence, a 
divine name in the idea of God himself. 
The whole form of the human body is 
round (...)." 

Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta 
philosophia 



"But a completely evenly formed human 
body also represents a square; for if a man 
Stands upright with arms outstretched 
and feet together, he forms an even-sided 
rectangle, the centre of which is at the 
lowest part of the pubic bone." 

Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta 
philosophia 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


535 




Human Form 
Divine 


"If one draws a circle from this centre 
point over the top of the head, and lowers 
the arms until the fingertips touch the 
periphery of the circle, and the feet on 
the circumference are the same distance 
apart as the fingertips from the top of the 
head, the circle is thereby divided into 
five equal parts, and a regulär pentagon 
is produced, just as the two heels form an 
equilateral triangle with the navel." 

Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta 
philosophia 



"lf, with arms raised thus, the feet and 
legs are placed so far apart that the figure 
is shortened by one fourteenth of his 
upright posture, the distance between his 
feet and from the lower part of the pubic 
bone forms an equilateral triangle, and if 
one places the centre point in the navel, 
the periphery of a circle will touch the tips 
of the fingers and toes." 

Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta 
philosophia 



536 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Human Form 
Divine 



"lf both feet are spread to the left and 
right, with the calves facing inwards, and 
the hands are raised upwards along the 
same line, the tips of the fingers and toes 
form a perfect square, the centre of which 
isabove the navel." 

Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta 
philosophia 



"If the arms are stretched as high as 
possible above the head, the elbows are in 
the region of the head, and if a man Stand¬ 
ing in this Position, his feet remaining 
together, is placed in a perfect square 
whose opposite sides touch his soles and 
fingertips, the centre of the square will 
fall in the region of the navel, which also 
forms the centre betweeen the top of the 
head and knees." 

Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta 
philosophia 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


537 












Human Form 
Divine 


The Parmasayika 
grid is a funda¬ 
mental religious 
diagram which 
divides upthe 
Hindu Pantheon 
according to the 
measures of the 
"purusha" of the 
cosmic primal 
man. The lotus 
grows fromthe 
central point of his 
navel, and from it 
"brahma" orthe 
vital principle of 
the universe. The 
greatest deities 
are grouped 
around the centre, 
the lesser around 
the edge. 


The diagram was 
used as a ground 
plan fortemple 
buildings, and also 
forthe arrange- 
ments of cities, 
with the places 
of the divine hier- 
archies corres- 
ponding tothe 
districts of human 
classes or castes. 

It was the archi- 
tect's task to 
reproduce the 
human prototype 
of the universe in 
his constructions. 






538 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


r 


Human Form 
Divine 



Blueprint of a basilica on the measure of a 
human figure. 

In his writings, Francesco Giorgio 
(1460-1540) linked the Pythagorean 
theory of harmony with hermetic and 
Cabalistic speculations. 

"The ancients also divided theirtemples, 
public buildings and the like according 
to the structure of the human body (...) 
just as he (Cod) himself gave the whole 
machine of the universe the symmetry of 
the human body." 

(Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occutta 
philosophia) 



"When man Stretches out crosswise, so 
that the circle touches the extremes at 
hands and feet, the centre is the navel, but 
if he puts his feet hard together (...) the 
centre is the middle in the human member. 
It was according to this measure of the hu¬ 
man body that Noah is supposed to have 
built his ark and Solomon his temple." 

(A. Kircher, Musurgia universalis. 
Schwäbisch Hall edition, 1662) 

A. Kircher, Area Noe, Amsterdam, 1675 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


539 




























Human Form 
Divine 


According to Giordano Bruno, the number 
five is the number of the soul, as it is com- 
posed of even and odd. "Because the fig* 
ure of man is bounded by five outer 
points, the dastardly race of black magi- 
cians casts effective spells through the 
pentagram. Anyone who wants to know 
unworthiness should seek it in the books 
of these windbags (...)" 

(Giordano Bruno, About the Monas , I5gi) 


Among the Egyp- 
tians, the image 
of Veiovis (Mars) 
as the image of 
misfortune looked 
like this. 


Butthe image of 
good fortune of 
Diovis (Jupiter) 
looked like this. 

Giordano Bruno, 
Vol. 7, Naples, 1886 




Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Human Form 
Divine 



The bodily fluids 
and the elemental 
qualities in man 
in relation tothe 
zodiac. 

Burgo de Osma, 
Spain, 

nth Century 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


541 



Human Form 
Divine 




Fludd's monu¬ 
mental five- 
volume work, 
Utriusque Cosmi, 
was published in 
1617-1621 by the 
German publisher 
Teodorde Bry, 
probably through 
the agency of 
Michael Maier, 
who had visited 
Fludd in England 
in 1615. The 
engravings, based 
on Fludd's de- 
tailed drawings 
were made by de 
Bry's son-in-law 
Matthäus Merian. 



Thetwo diagrams 
show the influ- 
ences of the 
twelve signs of the 
zodiac (top), and 
the seven planets 
(bottom) on the 
regions ofthe 
human body. 





542 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Human Form 
Divine 



Utriusque Cofiru { 

^AIORIS fcilicct ct MINORIS METAPVsiCA , PHYSICA 

ATQVE TECHNICA 

HISTOKIA 

In duo Volumina fccunclum COSMI differentiam diuisa 

Avthore Roberto Flud <diü JtJFkfhluj. Amuno 

" Cf tnMedicm.i Doclorc Opcomoiß i Hi A, 

7 _ ,, , Tornus Primus . JJlaXnAt,. 

* De Macrocojmi Hisloria m duos tractatus aiiuja 
[Meurhfu Mäiracofm 

H v • /n_ J I tt Cnluuraru illiui oftu 

[Pnmtij dt _ 

1 ^<«nvpMM fryfäj!* Tv V 

Anthmctic im fn 

Muficwn • B 

:ura Gco.mctf um C wfcVMit Jfa 

1 Pcrfpcctivam K . 

Ariern Piccoriitn ^ SEL«| 

"• . Ariern Miliincm f 

Mw«. jgmSm . 


uorum 


AliroloJtiirm 
I Gcomantum 


The frontpiece to 
the first volume of 
Utriusque Cosmi 
shows, in the 
outer circle, the 
Ptolemaic macro- 
cosm, whose re- 
flection in all parts 
is man. 

In the innermost 
circles arethe four 
humours of man, 
corresponding to 
theelements.To 
the central, black 
circle corresponds 
the outermost 
macrocosmic 
boundary of goat- 
footed Chronos- 
Saturn, who 
unrollsthe great 
universal year. 

The swastika-like 
sign on his hour- 
glass represents 
the polar forces 
that govern the 
whole universe: 
systole-sulphur 
and diastoie- 
mercury, sun and 
moon of both 
cosmoi. 

Utriusque Cosmi , 
Vol. I, Oppenheim , 
1617 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


543 












Human Form 
Divine 



According to the Biblical account of 
Creation, man was created on the final 
day. Welling took this as grounds to 
assume "that the most wise Creator had 
not only pulied his master stroke in man as 
the final creature, but also concentrated 
and resolved the beginning and the end of 
all creatures, that is, to allow the whole 
universe to run together and accumulate 
within this one circle." 


In Welling's view, the elemental creation 
consists in the Splitting or division of the 
heavenly, primal element "Shamayim" 
into fire and water and into light and dark- 
ness. Only man contains this primal ele¬ 
ment in its pure form "so that he himself is 
a little spark of the living deity". 

Cregorius Anglus Sallwigt (alias von Welling), 
Opus mago-cabalisticum , Frankfurt , 7779 


544 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 



Human Form 
Divine 


The last visions of 
Hildegard von 
Bingen, written 
down in 1163-1173, 
concern the in- 
volvement of man 
in the Order of 
God's creation. 
The divine love of 
the son appears 
to her as a red, 
cosmicfigure in 
thesky, dwarfed 
only by the good- 
ness of the Father. 
In his breast ap- 
peared the 'Wheel 
of the World'with 
thebright fire of 
light and the black 
fire of justice as 
the outermost 
bounds of the uni¬ 
verse. The twelve 
animals' heads 
represent winds 
and virtues, which 
together produce 
the System of 
reference in which 
man can exist 
as the crown of 
creation. 

Hildegard von 
Bingen , Liber 
Diviorum Operum , 
I3th Century 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


545 
































Human Form 
Divine 



"Now you are 
Christ's body, and 
each of you a limb 
or organ of it." 

(i Corinthians 
12,27) 

"And (God) put all 
things under his 
feet, and made 
him (the Son) 
the head over all 
things in the 
church, "which 
is his body, and as 
such holds within 
itthe fullness of 
him who himself 
receives theentire 
fullness of God." 
(Eph. l, 22-23) 

From this divine 
fullness (Pieroma) 
flows the Holy 
Spirit, the breath 
of lifeof the 
Church. 

The Church as the 
mystical body of 
Christ , Opinicus de 
Canistris, 1340 





546 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 




Human Form 
Divine 



ln the pre-Aryan 
Indian tradition 
of Jainism, cosmic 
man is not an 
immaterial God- 
figure, butthe 
organism of the 
world itself. This 
anthropomorphic 
cosmos"neverhad 
a beginning and 
will never end. 

Not 'spirit' dis- 
tinct from 'mat¬ 
ter', but 'spiritual 
matter', 'material- 
ized spirit', that is 
the FIRST MAN". 
(Heinrich Zimmer, 
Philosophie und 
Religion Indiens, 
Zürich, ig6i) 

The individual's 
path of enlighten- 
mentascends 
through the lower 
bodily regions of 
the Anthropos to 
the uppermost 
curve of his skull. 

The form and 
dimensions of 
the cosmic primal 
man, Cujarat, 

I7th Century 


547 









































Human Form 
Divine 


Human Form 
Divine 


"Allof asuddenl 
saw an intense 
bright light (the 
father) and in it 
the sapphire-blue 
figure of a man 
(the son) which 
burned entirely in 
the gentle red of 
sparkling flame 
(Holy Spirit). The 
bright light en¬ 
tirely flooded the 
sparkling flame 
and the sparkling 
flame flooded the 
bright light. And 
both, the bright 
light and the 
sparkling flame 
flooded the 
human figure, like 
a light existing in 
one power and 
strength." (Hilde¬ 
gard von Bingen, 
Wisset die Wege, 
Salzburg edition, 
1981) 

Representation of 
the Trinity as the 
true unity. 

Hildegard von 
Bingen, Scivias 
(Rupertsberg 
Codex), 

I2th Century 



548 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 




For decades, 
Kircherwas based 
in Rome, atthe 
information centre 
of the global 
Jesuit mission, and 
he acquired news 
and materials from 
the remotest parts 
of the world for 
his collection and 
his books. 

Here, thesupreme 
Hindu creator 
god Brahma is 
depicted in his 
aural, cosmicegg, 
from which he 
creates heaven 
and earth by Split¬ 
ting it. This egg 
consists of seven 
visible exoteric 
worlds, called 
'Locas', and seven 
esoteric worlds. To 
these levels, four- 
teen in number, 
correspond the 
same number of 
concrete States of 
consciousness 
through which any 
person can pass. 

A. Kircher, 

La Chine illustree, 
Monuments, 
Amsterdam, 1670 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


549 







































































Human Form 
Divine 


Blake used a number of models for the 
concept of bis giant Albion. 

In Böhme's Aurora, heaven is described as 
the interior of a human being, on the 
model of the heavenly primal man of the 
Cabbala, Adam Cadmon. In his visions, 
Swedenborg also described heaven and 
hell as anthropomorphic organisms: 
"Because God is man, the whole host of 
angels represents a single man, divided 
into regions and zones according to the 
limbs, intestines and Organs of man." Also, 
each human being is "only a small part - 


particula - within the Great Man, and 
there is never anything in man that does 
not have an equivalent in the Great Man". 
(Wisdom of the Angels, Zürich, ig40)The 
limbs of Blake's giant Albion, on the other 
hand, are assigned to the earthly topo- 
graphy of the British Isles: his right hand 
covers Wales, his elbow rests on Ireland 
and London lies between his knees. The 
protagonists in Joyce's Finnegans Wake, 
H.C.E. and A.L.P. at one point assume 
the form of giants and occupy individual 
districts of Dublin. 


In Cabbalistic tra- 
dition, theten 
Sephiroth that 
structure the uni- 
verse are the limbs 
of the primal man, 
Adam Cadmon. He 
is so vast that each 
of his hairs can be 
imagined as a 
stream of light 
linked tomillions 
of worlds. 

Adam Cadmon is 
also identified 
with the figure 
that Ezekiel saw 
onthe wheeled 
throne, and with 
the appearance of 
the 'Ancient in 
Years' in Daniel 
7 , 13 - 

Jewish 

Encyclopedia 



550 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Human Form 
Divine 





"For all are Men in 
Eternity, Rivers, 
Mountains, Cities, 
Villages/All are 
Human, & when 
you enter into 
their Bosoms you 
walk / In Heavens 
& Earths, as in 
your own Bosom 
you bearyour 
Heaven/ And 
Earth & all you be- 
hold; tho' it ap- 
pears Without, it 
is Within, / In your 
Imagination, of 
which this World 
of Mortality is but 
a Shadow." (W. 
Blake, Jerusalem) 

"No form, no 
world had exist - 
ence before the 
form of man was 
present. For it 
includes all things, 
and everything 
that exists, only 
exists through it." 
(Zohar) 

W. Blake, The Sun 
at its Eastern Cate, 
c. 1815 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


551 























Human Form 
Divine 


The "Mystical Body of Babylon" refers to 
the four empires hostile to God which 
appeared to the Babylonian tyrant Nebu- 
chadnezzar in a vision, in the form of a 
large statue made of different metals 
(Daniel 2, 31-46). The golden head signi- 
fies the Babylonian empire itself, followed 
by the silver chest-zone of the Persians 
and Medeans, the copper belly symbolizes 
the Greek and the iron feet the Roman 
empire. 

As in Blake's poetry, Terry's representa- 
tion included the whole social structure in 


the image of a human organism. "There 
are more general comparisons to be made 
between Terry's millenarian publications 
and the illuminated books Blake was pro- 
ducing at roughly the same time. Both 
engravers combined interpretations of 
prophecy with their own designs to sug- 
gest the imminence of a political apoca- 
lypse." (Jon Mee, Dangerous Enthusiasm, 
Oxford, igg2) 

Carnet Terry, 1793 



rnor/iKric \\ixjoiX 

])AN 1 E L ’S llRAT J M A E. 


Ijjtfcifi:». 


nee 

.. t/i-sfrc*/ 

i» A I» V I. O N. 


ru- / hü * 

.fSm )/: 

wm rai •».< ».ilkoul 


•ru uka~~j cizir. 


I,., ^ Cl«v 

/unY/.ux Mrsr/:nr 


552 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Human Form 


Divine 





"The sphere of 
human nature 
encompasses in its 
human possibility 
God and the 
universe." (Niko¬ 
laus of Cusa, 

De coniecturis, 
c. 1443, Hamburg 
edition, ig88) 

W. Blake, Albion's 
Dance, c. 1794 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


553 


























Human Form 
Divine 



The "Mysterium Magnum" is the funda¬ 
mental duality in one God, the "ground" 
and the "unground", "from which time 
and the visible world have flown". In his 
title engraving, Georg Gichtei interpreted 
the one duality of microcosm/macrocosm 
and Moses/Messiah: just as Moses was the 
representative of the authoritarian aspect 
of God for the small world of the children 
of Israel, Christ is the incarnation of divine 
love for humanity as a whole. 


J. Böhme , Theosophische Wercke, 
Amsterdam 1682 


The trumpet-blowing angel of the end 
of time unveils the transfigured face of 
Moses, and Christ reveals himself in the 
perfect clock of the zodiac as ruler of the 
spiritual age of the lily. 


554 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 



Human Form 
Divine 

Manis"in his out¬ 
ward body an ens 
(being) of the four 
elements, and in 
his outward life an 
ens of the'Spiritus 
Mundi' (world 
spirit) (...) as the 
great clock (the 
zodiac) relates to 
timein which the 
figure Stands, and 
the'Spiritus 
Mundi' also gives 
him such a figure 
in the property of 
outward life, it 
forms him as such 
an animal in the 
outward life- 
property, for the 
'Spiritus' of the 
outer world of the 
elements cannot 
give other than an 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


555 


(J. Böhme, Von der 
Gnadenwahl) 


D.A. Freher, 
in: Works of 
J. Behmen, 

Law edition , 1764 







































Human Form 
Divine 


senses sealed. To the right is the inner man 
in the liberated state, as he lives in the 
world of light of the hidden deity. 


"Now man (...) Stands at the centre, 
between the realms of God and hell, 
between love and wrath; which spirit he 
makes his own, he is of it." (J. Böhme, 
Vom dreyfachen Leben) 


In alchemy, the peacock symbolizes the 
night of decay. It is also the symbolic ani 
mal of Juno, the wife of Jupiter, who, 
along with Venus and Mercury, is among 
the three source spirits of the world of 
light. 


On the left, on the flap, we can see the 
outer man, Standing with both feet in the 
abyss of the "dark world", in "God's fire 
of wrath". The impressions of the sidereal, 
world spirit are imprinted on his upper 
body. In Böhme's view the outer man lives 
imprisoned by the elemental and astral 
influences that keep the portals of his 


D.A. Freher, in: Works ofJ. Behmen , 
Law edition, 1764 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 



Human Form 
Divine 


The ascent of this "salnitric fire-crack" 
through the seven source-spirits has often 
been compared to the awakening of the 
snake-fire, the kundalini'm Hindu yoga, 
which rises through the seven, delicate 
centres of the body, the chakras, above 
the head, where it ascends in pure know- 
ledge. 


Man is made of all the forces of God, of 
all seven spirits of God. (...) But because 
he is now corrupt, the divine birth does 
not always swell within him. (...) Forthe 
Holy Ghost cannot be grasped and fixed in 
sinful flesh; but it ascends like a lightning 
flash (...) But if the lightning flash is caught 
in the spring of the heart, it ascends to 
the brain in the seven source-spirits like 
the red sky at morning: and in it are pur- 
pose and knowledge." (J. Böhme, Aurora) 


D.A. Freher , in: Works ofJ. Behmen , 
Law edition , 1764 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 



Human Form 
Divine 


Fludd presented the four spiritual levels of 
man in the picture of the Tetragrammaton. 
Yod, the formless seed of all things, is 
compared to the spirit or pure knowledge. 
He , the "upper palace", is the intellect; 

Vau , "the connecting link", the soul or the 
life-spirit. The second He or "the lower 
dwelling-place" represents the sensual 
and elemental sphere. 

The Cabala has three regions of the soul, 
although these are all contained within 
each other. The "vegetable soul", dedic- 
ated to the sensual life, is called Nefesh. 

It passes with death. To it corresponds the 
Zelem , the so-called ethereal or astral 
body. The innermost divine spark of the 
soul is called Neshama. 

Similar ideas are familiär from Paracelsus. 
According to his theory, man, like every- 


thing eise, consists of the trinity of salt, 
sulphur and mercury. Salt is the body and 
mercury the spirit. "But the centre be- 
tween Spiritus and corpore (...) is the soul 
and is sulphur". (Paracelsus, De natura re- 
rum , 1525). To it corresponds the astral 
body, which also communicates between 
spirit and body. "It was the Platonic 'char- 
iot of the soul'. It was imagined as a 'pneu* 
matic Shell' - on its descent it received the 
soul from the stars and their evil (...) 'ad- 
ministrators'. These are the 'Archonte' (...), 
in Paracelsus the 'Archei, Vullcani' or 
'smiths'. The soul casts off the astral body 
like a garment when it makes the upward 
journey through the realm of the astral 
Archontes." (Walter Pagel, Paracelsus 
als 'Naturmystiker', in: Epochen der Natur- 
mystic, Berlin, 1979) 

R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. II, Frankfurt, 1621 



558 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 



Human Form 
Divine 


Nobody did 
greater Service to 
the dissemination 
of Böhme's ideas 
thanthe Regens¬ 
burg writer Georg 
Gichtei (1638- 
1710), who was 
himself devoted to 
a radical Sophian 
mysticism, and 
who, in exile in 
Amsterdam, sur- 
rounded himself 
with a circle of 
celibate 'angelic 
brothers'. In his 
Theosophia prac¬ 
tica (1696) he 
described howthe 
wheel of the 
planets lies on the 
body in seven 
diabolical seals. 


LHoMME TeRP.es tR.E NAtUREtTENEBREUX 
Selon Lej —. Et Les 


G. Gichtei, 
Theosophia 
practica, 
1898 edition 


L EUMEN t 




Microcosm: Human Form Divine 





Human Form 
Divine 


Forhis act of 
Creation, God 
descended three 
world octaves to 
breathe his Spirit 
into man. Hence 
man's spiritual 
capacity also takes 
in the whole span 
ofthe three inter- 
vals ofthe ladder 
of creation: eie- 
mental, celestial 
and super-celes- 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 
CosmiVol. II, 
Frankfurt, 1621 



)0r ^*nm 


'S wrjw 




560 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Human Form 
Divine 



Fludd called the 
human body (F)a 
"vessel of all 
things", for, ac- 
cording to the har- 
monicdiagram, it 
hasthe ability to 
connect with 
every region of 
the three worlds 
through various, 
subtle, spiritual 
media. 


Via the so-called 
"middle soul" (E) 
which swims in the 
ethereal sphere, 
he maintains 
contact with the 
region ofthe ele- 
ments. Its equival- 
ent in the Cabala is 
the vegetable soul 
Nefesh. 


ta uoncs 

ipatö?- 


Fludd callsthe 
uppermost "pure 
spirit" (A) the 
"chimney to God' 


R. Fludd, Utriusque 
Cosmi II, Frankfurt, 
1621 


. Mens stmplcx sjttraculum Dei 
IntellecTuS oyrrjJ prtmum Men 
tis tpjjumentum Jeu Vehtculum : 
Ment Cf inulUctus tn Spirit* r 4 • 
ttonal 1 nUtonr. Jeu muüe 'ctM tuusnlt 
Spiritus ratiamdis cum Avente C f 
Intelleetu tn ~4ntma meJiA . 
jinitnn mediA m latus jrtfxrn naüms. 
Seu lux "Vitalis Cum Mente 
Corpus reeevtaeulum ommum . 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


561 













Human Form 
Divine 


The alchemist holding the two Masonic 
Symbols of the compass and the 
set-square marks the saturnine beginning 
of the Work, which is connected with the 
dark descent into the "interior of the 
earth". Only there, according to the 
famous VITRIOL acronym, will one find the 
philosophers' stone. 

Here, the lapis is represented as the red 
point in the egg-yolk of the four-element 
Work, from which the quintessence, or the 
"little chick", emerges. 

Theatrum chemicum, ed. Lazarus Zetzner, 
1661 


"In the usual way, understand man as com- 
posed out of the unity of the light of hu¬ 
man nature and the difference of physical 
darkness; to unfold him more precisely, 
return to the first figure (Figura paradig- 
matica). You clearly recognize three 
spheres: a lower, a middle and an upper." 
(Nikolaus of Cusa, De coniecturis) 

R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. II, 
Oppenheim, 1619 




Microcosm: Human Form Divine 





Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Human Form 
Divine 


The equivalent in man to the three spheres 
of the Great World, with their different 
qualities, are three spiritual and physical 
levels: the sublunar elemental region is 
the sphere of the senses (lower body), the 
astral, ethereal region is the sphere of 
the soul (breast region) and the divine fire- 
heaven is the sphere of the intellect 
(head). The sun at the intersection of form 
and matter is, in the macrocosm, the seat 
of the cosmic soul. Its equivalent in man is 
the heart as the seat of the soul and the 
vital spirit (Archaeus). 

R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. II, 
Oppenheim, 1619 


The human body in the image of the con- 
flict between the two States into which 
the primal matter (Shamayim) is separated 
in the act of creation: the lower, impure 
waters, whose poisonous fumes rise from 
the lower body, and the upper, subtle 
spiritual fire. The two mingle in the breast 
region, maintaining an equilibrium in the 
region of the heart. 

R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. II, 
Oppenheim, 1619 


563 


562 






Human Form 
Divine 


"Inthis picture we 
see the wonderful 
harmony in which 
the two extremes, 
the most precious 
and the most 
gross, are linked." 
Fludd is referring 
to soul and body. 
The cosmic spirit 
iinkingthe two is 
represented as the 
string of a micro- 
cosmic, mono- 
chord. At birth, 
the soul descends 
along the marked 
intervals from the 
higher spheres in 
man and in death 
it rises back along 
them. 

R. Fludd, 

Utriusque Cosmi, 
Vol. II, 

Oppenheim, i6ig 


564 



Microcosm: Human Form Divine 



Human Form 
Divine 



revS 5YMPATHICV S 1MICROCO.SMI CVM MEGACOSMol 

„ ßyt fignMvras ?lanttnan, cum- jogulis humim.cjrportj mrmbv cxfrvntxj. 


njap 


luvlBEEaPV 



Inthisdiagram of 
the correlations in 
the micro-macro- 
cosm Kircher fol- 
lowed the theories 
of correspondence 
in the Platonicand 
Hermetic tradi- 
tion, in which the 
world is described 
as a living organ- 
ism with metabolic 
processes. In the 
Musurgia univer¬ 
sale Kircher as- 
signed the sun to 
the heart, the 
moon to the brain, 
Jupiter to the liver, 
Saturn to the 
spieen, Venus to 
the kidneys, Mer- 
cury tothe lungs 
and the earth to 
the stomach. "The 
veins signify the 
rivers, the bladder 
the sea. The seven 
majorlimbs signify 
the seven metallic 
bodies, the legs 
signify the quar- 
ries, theflesh sig- 
nifies the earth, 
the hairsignifies 
thegrass." 

A. Kircher, Mundus 
subterreaneus, 
Amsterdam, 1682 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


565 














Human Form 
Divine 


Thetwelve signs 
of the zodiacand 
their influence on 
the parts of the 
body: 

Aries: head, 
suprarenal glands, 
blood pressure 
Taurus: throat, 
shoulders, ears 
Gemini: lungs, 
nerves, arms, 
head, fingers 
Cancer: thorax, 
some bodily fluids 
Leo: heart, back, 
spine, spieen 
Virgo: belly, in- 
testines, galt blad- 
der, pancreas, liver 
Libra: coccyx, 
hips, kidneys, 
glands 
Scorpio: sex 
organs, pelvis, 
rectum 
Sagittarius: 
thighs, legs 
Capricorn: knees, 
bones, skin 
Aquarius: bones, 
blood vessels 
Pisces: feet, some 
bodily fluids 

Hebrew 

manuscript, 

I4th Century 



566 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


Human Form 
Divine 



enn JT3 


mm. 

1! WMl',; 

tfip'UA ti ' 

: i xu/pr’/ , 
r»n / 
T'S) M jf 


,p'ccv^ P'3 *b [{ 


In his illustration 
fora medical 
treatise, Tobias 
Cohn compared 
the human ana- 
tomy with a four- 
storey house. 

The four storeys 
correspond to the 
fourworlds in 
which the entire 
cosmos is divided 
intheimageof the 
Sephiroth tree. 

Tobias Cohn 1 , 
Maaseh Tobiyyah, 

1707 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 


567 






































Human Form 
Divine 



Up until the first half of the i6th Century, 
when the first systematic dissections were 
undertaken, the ideas of the Roman physi- 
cian Galen färd Century B.C.), based on 
Aristotelean speculations, were taken as 
Standard. Galen claimed that a "natural 
spirit", consumed in food, enters the 
blood via the liver. In his diagnoses, he 
therefore placed a special importance on 
the examination of the pulse. The "vital 
spirits" of the blood, which dwell in the 
left ventricle of the heart, are transformed 
in the brain by the "pneuma", the breath 
of spirit, into "animal spirits". He knew 


nothing of the circulation of the blood. 
According to him, blood flows via invisible 
pores in the wall that separates the two 
ventricles. 

Fludd still maintained his views of the 
assimilation of the Holy Spirit through the 
human System of vessels, and its storage 
in the left ventricle and the brain, entirely 
in accordance with Galen's theories 
(cf. 642). 

G. Reisch , Pretiosa Margarita , Freiburg , 1503 


568 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 



Human Form 
Divine 


strong and perfect life." (Aurora consur- 
gens, 2 nd Treatise, early i6th Century) 


"Of the inward things of man: 

Art (alchemy) is also compared with the 
main parts that are in a human being, 
namely the brain in the coldness of water 
(phlegma), the heart in the warmth of fire 
(called Cholera), the liver in the moisture of 
air (called sanguinea ) and melancholy in 
human transactions or limbs (...) But the 
fifth power is neither warm nor cold, moist 
nor dry (...) but is actually called life, which 
brings the four together and gives them a 


"But what and how the life of each thing is 
in its uniqueness, is to know that it is noth¬ 
ing but a spiritual being, an invisible and 
incomprehensible thing and a spirit and a 
spiritual thing." (Paracelsus, De natura 
rerum , 1537) 


Aurora consurgens , late i4th Century 


Microcosm: Human Form Divine 



Brain & 
memory 


ln Scholastic tradition there are three 
chambers of the brain which work on a 
cooperative basis, and which are related 
to the Aristotelian elemental qualities. 

The front chamber of imagination, cellula 
phantastica, is hot and dry. Blake called it 
the "furnace of Los", in which sensory 
information (in Blake's mythology the 
larks, the messengers of Los) is shaped 
into glowing, visual images and etched 
into the brain. The central chamber of rea- 
son, cellula rationalis , is warm and moist. 
Here, the minted images are brought into 
ordered contexts to create knowledge. 
The linguistic arts of grammar, dialectics 


and rhetoric were assigned to it. Heinrich 
Schipperges calls the back chamber of 
memory, cellula memoralis, the "great 
storage room of images" (H. Schipperges, 
Die Welt des Auges, Freiburg, ig78). It is 
the archive or reservoir from which the 
central chamber draws its material for new 
chains of thought. Here are the "halls of 
Los" holding the "glowing sculptures" of 
all things that happen on earth. "Every 
age renews its powers from these works." 
(W. Blake, Jerusalem, 1804-1820) 

C. Reisch , Pretiosa Margarita , Freiburg , 

1503 


LiötK A, TRAC.Il DE POTENT!» 



Brain & 
memory 



On the left, above 
theforehead, in 
Fludd's model, 
floats the circular 
diagram of the 
world as percept- 
ible to thesenses. 
It is subdivided 
into an elemental 
quinternity which 
Stands in relation 
tothe fivesenses 
of man: earth: 
touch, water: 
taste, air: smell, 
ether: hearing, 
fire: seeing. This 
"sensitive world" 
is "imagined" in 
the first brain* 
chamber, by the 
transforming 
power of the soul, 
intoashadowydu- 
plicate, and then 
transcended in 
the next chamber 
of the capacity 
forjudgmentand 
knowledge: 
throughthe keen- 
ness of the spirit 
the soul pene- 
trates to the 
divine "world of 
the intellect". The 
last chamber is the 
centre of memory 
and movement. 

R. Fludd, Utriusque 
cosmi, Vol. II , 
Oppenheim , 1619 


Microcosm: Brain & memory 


571 


570 


Microcosm: Brain & memory 





Brain & 
memory 


Descartes compared the creation of 
pictures of memory in the brain with the 
traces left by needles in fabric. Even Plato 
described the working of memory with 
the image of impressions in a wax block. 

From: Rene Descartes, Traite de l'homme 




In Classical antiquity memory was held to 
be the "mother of the muses". As late as 
the Renaissance a series of polished tech- 
niques for the training of the memory 
were developed and handed down. They 
are all based on the notion that a basic 
repertoire of places or pictures is im- 
pressed upon the memory in a particular 
sequence, and that this can then be associ 
ated with random and changing images. 


"The art of memory is like an inner writing. 
Those who know the letters of the 
alphabet can write down what is dictated 
to them and read out what they have 
written." (Frances A. Yates, The Art of 
Memory, London, ig 66 ) 

R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi , Tractatus primi, 
Oppenheim, 1620 


Brain & 
memory 



Fludd distinguishes between a round and 
a square art of memory. The round art uses 
fantastic and magically charged diagrams 
with which it seeks to draw down the 
celestial influences. The square art is the 
classical mnemonictechnique, which uses 
real places and natural images. 

R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. II, 
Oppenheim, 161g 



This mnemonic figure was used as a guide 
to impressing the Gospel according to 
St Luke. The individual hieroglyphs are 
aides-mdmoires, and mark particularly 
significant passages in the Gospel. 

Sebastian Brant, Hexastichon, 1509 


572 


Microcosm: Brain & memory 


Microcosm: Brain & memory 


573 










Signatures 


Signatures 



According to Zedler's Universal-Lexikon 
(Halle, 1732-1754), physiognomy is "the 
art which from the outward Constitution 
of the limbs or the lineaments of a man's 
body reveals his nature and emotional dis- 
position". For a long time, it was part of 
the wide repertoire of the occult arts. 
Fludd included it alongside astrology and 
chiromancy among the microcosmic arts, 
and the universal scholar Giambattista 
della Porta, who founded the "Academy 
for the Study of the Secrets of Nature" in 
Naples in 1560, included it in the broad 
spectrum of the "Magia naturalis". At the 
end of the i8th Century, the writings of Jo¬ 
hann C. Lavater (1741-1801), building upon 
della Porta's Physiognomia, led to a "mania 


for physiognomics", to which even 
Goethe succumbed. He eagerly gave his 
friend Lavater the silhouettes of his 
acquaintances. Lavater also developed 
approaches towards a physiognomics of 
criminals and races. One resolute Oppo¬ 
nent of the "physiognomists" was the 
physicist and thinker G.C. Lichtenberg: "If 
physiognomics becomes what Lavater ex- 
pects of it, children will be hanged before 
they have committed the deeds that merit 
the gallows (...)" ( Sudelbücher , 1777), and: 
"We regularly judge from faces, and we 
are regularly wrong". [Über Physiognomik) 

Giambattista della Porta, De Humana 
Physiognomia, 1650 



According to della 
Porta, the whole 
natural world con- 
sists of a network 
of secret corres- 
pondences which 
can be revealed 
through analogy. 
A plant leaf in the 
shape of äset of 
deer's antlers is 
related to the 
character ofthat 
animal. People 
who look like don- 
keys are stupid; 
Those who look 
like oxen are stub- 
born, lazy and 
easily irritated; 
leonine people are 
powerful, gener- 
ous and brave. 



Giambattista della 
Porta, De Humana 
Physiognomia, 
1650 


Microcosm: Signatures 


575 


574 


Microcosm: Signatures 


Signatures 


Signatures 


With this meta- 
morphosis "from a 
frog's head to 
Apollo" Lavater 
was putting his 
theory of evolu- 
tion to thetest: 
the more pointed 
the angle of the 
profile, the more 
lacking in reason is 
the creature. "The 
first figure isthus 
wholly frog, so 
wholly does it rep- 
resentthe puffed- 
up representative 
of repellent bes- 
tiality." With the 
tenth figure "com- 
mences the first 
step towards un- 
brutality (...) with 
thetwelfth figure 
begins the lowest 
stage of humanity 
(...) the sixteenth 
head gradually 
rises towards 
reason" and "from 
this upto such 
as Newton and 
Kant". 

J.C. Lavater, 
Physiognomik , 
Vienna, 1829 








Between 181g and 
1820 Blake carried 
out spiritualist 
seances with the 
astrologer and 
landscape painter 
John Varley, pro- 
ducing "visionary 
portraits". In 1828 
Varley described 
howthe "spirit of 
a fly" appeared to 
Blake. "Düring the 
time occupied in 
completing the 
drawing, the fly 
told himthat all 
flies were inhab- 
ited bythesouls 
of such men as 
were by nature 
blood-thirsty to 
excess, and were 
therefore provi- 
dentially confined 
to the size and 
form of insects; 
otherwise, were 
he himself, for in- 
stance, the size of 
a horse, he would 
depopulate a 
great portion of 
thecountry." 

W. Blake, Spirit ofa 
Fly, 1819 




576 


Microcosm: Signatures 


Microcosm: Signatures 


577 





Signatures 


The Italian doctor and astrologist Hierony¬ 
mus Cardanus (1501-76) developed a Sys¬ 
tem of the relationships between moles 
and the signs of the zodiac. Moles on the 
bridge of the nose were assigned to Libra, 
on the cheekbones to Scorpio and Sagit- 
tarius, between nose and upper lip to 
Aquarius, on the chin to Pisces. Moles on 
the neck predicted saturnine misfortune, 
and possibly decapitation. 

H. Cardanus. Metoposcopia 



"Just as, in the firmament, we see certain 
figures formed by the stars and constella- 
tions, which teil us of hidden things and 
deep secrets, so on the skin (...) there are 
certain figures and signs which are, we 
might say, the stars and constellations of 
our body. All of these forms have a hidden 
meaning (...) for the wise who can read in 
the face of man." (Zohar) 

H. Cardanus , Metoposcopia. Paris. 1658 



578 


Microcosm: Signatures 



Signatures 


On mole no. 1 (on 
the top right-hand 
sideof the brow): 


"The man and 
woman who have a 
mole on the right- 
hand side of the 
brow beneath the 
line of Saturn (...) 
but one which 
does not touch 
that line, also have 
one on the right- 
hand side ofthe 
ehest. Such people 
can expect luck in 
tilling, sowing, 
planting and 
ploughing. And if 
such a moleis the 
colourof honey or 
rubies, they will 
have good fortune 
during theirlife- 
time; if it is black, 
the person's for¬ 
tune will be 
changeable(...) 
This mole hasthe 
nature of Venus, 
Mercury and Mars, 
and is named after 
the Lyre (Vega), 
a star ofthe first 
magnitude." 

(K. Seligmann, 

Das Weltreich der 
Magie. Stuttgart, 
1958) 




Richard Saunders , 
Physiognomy , 
London. 1671 


Microcosm: Signatures 








Signatures 


"There is no thing in nature created or born that does not reveal its 
inner form outwardly as well, for the internal always works towards 
revelation (...) as we can see and recognize in stars and elements, and 
in creatures, and trees and plants (...) Thus in the signature there lies 
great understanding, in which man not only comes 
to know himelf, but he may also learn to recognize 
the essence of all beings." (J. Böhme, De Signatura 
rerum, 1622) 

Nature in all its facets was seen as a kind of 

secret writing, a huge cryptogram of God which 

the wise man could decipher with the help of cer- 

tain techniques. Paracelsus included among these 

geomancy (the art of fortune-telling from dots or 

earth), physiognomy, hydromancy (fortune-telling 

from water), pyromancy (from fire), necromancy 

(conjuring the dead), astronomy and berillistica 

(crystal-reading). "All stars have their unique 

nature and consistency, whose signs and charac- 

teristics they communicate, through their rays, to 

our world of elements, stones, plants and animals. 

Thus each thing has a particular sign or character- 

istic impressed on it by the Star that shines upon 

Metoscopy', the it." (Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta philosophia, 1510) Not only 

study Ofthelines stars sj however; Paracelsus called the "Archeus", the inner smith, 

in the forehead, . .. 

divides the human a signator. He is the one who transforms the Information of intangi- 

forehead into b| e heavenly influences into physical tangibility. He sets, so to 

seven planetary 

zones . speak, the script of the genetic code. 

Ciro Spontoni, 

La Metoposcopia, 

Venice, 1651 



580 


Microcosm: Signatures 


Signatures 


a. Brow of a peace 
loving and 
successful man. 

b. Browofa spir¬ 
itual man with 
an inclination 
towards the 
priesthood. 

c. Brow of a man 
who will die a 
violent death. 

d. Brow of a suc¬ 
cessful soidier. 

e. Brow of a man 
threatened by an 
injuryto the head. 

f. Brow of a poi- 
soner. 

"A brow is idiotic 
if it has, in the 
middle and 
beneath, an elon- 
gated hollow, even 
one that is barely 
noticeable, and if 
it is itself elon- 
gated - I say if it is 
barely noticeable 
- as soon as it is 
noticeable every- 
thing changes." 
(J.C. Lavater. Von 
der Physiognomik , 
1772) 

From: H. Cardanus, 
Metoposcopia , 

Paris , 1658 






JW', 


Signatures 


Microcosm: Signatures 


Signatures 


The proportions of the finger-joints in re- 
lation to musical intervals. "Similarly, the 
elements, qualities, humours and fluids 
enjoy particular relationships." (Agrippa 
von Nettesheim, De occulta philosophia, 
1510) 

A. Kircher, Musurgia universalis, Rome, 1650 


The palm of the hand is read as a land- 
scape with mountains, valleys and rivers. 
The seven mountains or elevations of the 
hand correspond to the seven planets. 
Their different formation provides 
information about the development of 
the area of life assigned to the planet 
in question; the Mount of Venus of the 
thumb, for example, informs us about 
the subject's love affairs, while the Mount 
of the Sun beneath the ring finger teils 
us about his creativity and his sensitivity 
to beauty. 

Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta 
philosophia, 1510 


583 


Microcosm: Signatures 


The construction of the left hand with the 
measurements and proportions. 


"The length of the nails is exactly half the 
length of the outermost finger-joints." 
(Agrippa von Nettesheim, De occulta 
philosophia, 1510) 


The hand is the "Little World" of man, 
whose proportions, according to Agrippa, 
correspond to those of the body as a 
whole: it is the reflection of macrocosmic 
harmony. 


"Of the signs of chiromancy, know this, 
that they have their origin in the upper 
stars of the seven planets (...) Chiromancy 
is an art that consists not only in reading 
the hands of men and taking knowledge 
from their lines, branches and wrinkles, 
but includes all plants, all wood, all quartz 
and gravel, the soil and all flowing water 
and everything that has lines, veins, wrin¬ 
kles and the like." (Paracelsus, De sig- 
natura rerum naturalium, 1537) 


A. Dürer, From the Dresden Sketchbook, 1523 


UV-Ö*\ 






Signatures 


The Carthusian monk Johannes von Hagen, 
called ab Indagine (c. 1424-1475). »nflu- 
enced the magical works of Johannes 
Trithemius and Agrippa von Nettesheim 
with his many treatises. 

He identified three main lines for the In¬ 
terpretation of one's fate fom the palm of 
the hand: the centre line (linea media), the 
life or heart line (linea vitae) and the liver 
line (linea hepatis), which was thought 
to indicate disturbances in the digestive 
System. 

Johannes ab Indagine, Introductiones 
Apostelesmaticae, 1556 


Sigmar Polke, Correction ofthe lines 
in the hand 




584 


Microcosm: Signatures 


Signatures 



A Imperfecttable line 
B Sisterof the lifeline 
C Line ofthe liver and the stomach 
D Sister of the nature line 
E Lifeline 

Johannes ab Indagine, Introductiones 
Apostelesmaticae, 1556 



Microcosm: Signatures 


585 


Signatures 


This engraving was 
takenfromthe 
modei of a Roman 
bronze sculpture 
decorated with 
gnostic embems. 
The ram's head is a 
symbol of Jupiter, 
the pine cone on 
the thumb Stands 
forspirituality and 
rebirth. The royal 
power of the 
Magic Hand was 
supposedto 
protect againstall 
possiblediabolical 
influences. 

Anonymous , The 
Hand ofFate 




The fish symbolises the mucal-moist Mer- 
cury. It is "beginning, middle and end, it is 
the copulator, the priest who brings all 
things together and conjoins them." Here, 
Mercury means the male seed from which 


all metals are created. The fire or sulphur 
"is the woman that brings forth fruit". 

J. I. Hollandus , Chymische Schriften , 

Vienna , 1773 


586 


Microcosm: Signatures 



Signatures 


"This is the hand 
of the philo- 
sophers with their 
seven secret signs, 
to which the 
ancient sages were 
bound. 


The thumb: 

Just as the thumb 
powerfully closes 
the hand, so does 
saltpetre do in art. 


The index finger: 
Next to salpetre, 
vitriol is the 
strongest salt. It 
penetrates all 
metals. 


The middle finger: 
Sal ammoniac 
shinesthrough all 


The ring or 
gold finger: 

Alum gleams 
through the 
metals. It has a 
wonderful nature 
and the most 
subtle Spiritus. 


The ear finger: 
Common salt isthe 
key toart. 


The palm: 

The fish is 
Mercury, the fire 


J. I. Hollandus , 
Chymische 
Schriften , Vienna , 


Microcosm: Signatures 


















Signatures 


"The ancient 
philosophers (...) 
marked out the 
contellations, 
figures, seals and 
characters which 
nature itself has 
illustrated with 
the rays of the 
stars in stones, in 
plantsandtheir 
parts, as well as in 
the different limbs 
of the animals." 
(Agrippa von 
Nettesheim, De 
occulta philosophia, 
1510 ) 

"This writing has 
expressed itself 
adequately, a 
match for the 
bright light of 
day. And yet for 
us it is hidden and 
vague." (Giordano 
Bruno, About the 
Monas. 1591) 

Astrologers and 
geomancers. on 
Sir John de 
Mandeville's 
Travels. Bohemia. 
1410-1420 







588 


Microcosm: Signatures 


Signatures 



"People go many different ways. Anyone 
who follows and compares them will see 
wonderful figures appear; figures that 
seem to belong to that great script of 
ciphers that one sees everywhere, on 
wings, eggshells, in clouds, in snow, in 
crystals and in stone formations, in frozen 
water, inside and outside mountains (...) 
and in the particular conjunctures of 
chance. In them, one senses the key to this 
wonderful script, its grammar." 

(Novalis, Die Lehrlinge von Sais. 1800) 



"I was further confirmed in my view of 
assigning a soul to the earth (...) that there 
must be a shaping force in the bowels of 
the earth which, like a pregnant woman, 
depicts the events of human history, as 
they played out above, in the frangible 
stone (...)." (Johannes Kepler, Harmonices 
Mundi, 161g, Leipzig edition, ig25) 

A. Kircher, Mundus subterraneus, 
Amsterdam, 1682 


Microcosm: Signatures 


58g 














Signatures 


"This is the 
appearance of a 
small crabfound 
in the Öresund: 
Cancer maenas. 

It is not an excep- 
tion, butthe rule; 
when I bought 
twenty of them 
along that part of 
coastline, all 
twenty were 
marked by the 
same, sleepy facial 
expression. (...) 
What it means? 

I don't know!" 

August Strindberg, 
A Blue Book , 
Munich, 1918 



"The heart is based on the curve of the 
diaphragm, but the axis is inclined at an 
angle of 23°, like the axis of the earth 
against the path of the sun. And the heart 
is like the bud of the lotus f lower, says 
the Chinaman, while the Egyptians 
worshipped the flower of the sun (Isis). 
The eye shows the same adjustment and 
inclination towards the earth's axis or the 
sun's path, for the optic nerve is situated 
23 0 beneath the yellow patch which 
resembles the sun and receives the image 
on the aperture of the iris. The outer ear 
is a Shell (mytilus), but the inner ear is a 
snail (planorbis). The most curious thing 
is that the little bones in the ear (right) 
bear a passing similarity to the animal in 
the mud-snail, Limnaeus (left)." 

August Strindberg, A Blue Book, 

Munich, 1918 




590 


Microcosm: Signatures 


591 

















A. Kircher, Area 
Noe, Amsterdam , 

167s 


Script 
& seal 

According to 
Kircher, Adam's 
primal knowledge, 
the prisca sapien- 
tia, was handed 
down in unbroken 
succession to 
Noah.This know¬ 
ledge was based 
on man's ability to 
communicate 
directly with the 
spiritual worlds 
throughthe primal 
or natural lan- 
guage, which was 
then split intothe 
multiplicity of 
regional languages 
in the wake of the 
Babylonian confu- 
sion of languages. 
After Cod had 
allowed Noah and 
his family to sur- 
vive the flood in 
an ark, Noah's 
sons began to 
repopulatethe 
earth. Shem, 
cursed by his 
father, moved to 
Egypt, and thus 
became the source 
of all wisdoms as 
captured in the 
hermetic writings. 
Despite the re- 
spect in which the 
Egyptologist 
Kircherheidthat 
country's cultural 
achievements, he 
also saw Egypt as 
the motherof all 
religious errors 
such as polythe- 
ism, the doctrine 
of reincarnation, 
idolatry and black 
magic practices. 


592 


These were passed Shem's descend- 

on to all parts of ants. They 

the world which, indude India, 

in his view, were China, Japan and 

colonized by America. 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


Script 
& seal 


The primal script (in the second column) 
was revealed directly to man by the 
angels. The Hebrews called it the celestial 
script "because it is illustrated in the 
stars". (Agrippa von Nettesheim, De oc- 
culta philosophia, 1510) From it developed 
the Hebrew and other related alphabets. 
Kircher also traced the Egyptian hiero- 
glyph back to divine revelation, which was 


protected and preserved in the hermetic 
reserve of a sacred sign-system. Unlike 
subsequent research based on decoding 
the individual hieroglyphs as letters, 
Kircher gave symbolic meanings to his 
attempts at decipherment. 

A. Kircher, Turris Babel, Amsterdam, 1679 


A 

KJ 

« 

«V 


F 

VTT T 

X l 

2 

X 

B 

3 


3 

3 ä 

J 


13 

n 

C 

A 

X 

J 

7 

1 

1 

n 


£ 

D 

n 


1 

a 

1 

ITT 



y 

H 

n 

n 

\ 

3 

3 

3T 3T 

n 

cn 

n 

V 

1 

1 


3 

8 


«i 

~o~ 

1 

2 

T 

X 

< 

j* 

b 


j 

J 

r 

Ch 

n 

0 

n 


X 

& g 

n 

Ala. 

n 

T 


Ci 

•i 

<? 

£ 




0 

I 

A 


n 


M 


< 1 


> 

C 

> 

0 

n 

53 

3 




rp 

L 

X 

V 

3 

1 

L 

<x 

<!<i 

wv 


M 


?/ 

^3 

a 

2 

b a 



"DO 

N 

> 

> 

7 

V 

3 

S V 

*3 7 


T J 

_S_ 

~U 

V 

3 

3 

3 


O 


Ö 

dyn 

y 

V 

7 

□ 

V 


¥ 1 

ÜT 

y 

~P~ 

1 

V 


3 

_D_ 

* 

pr 

i£> 


TV 

X 




V 

yfir 


ij_ 

X 

3 

T 

0 

A 

p 

P 


? 

TA“ 

p 

R. 

y 

~V 

✓ 

as 



n 

7 


Sch 

\u 

TO 


'W* 

W 

W W 

w 

1 

UJ 

Th 


J) 


X'v 

I 

b X X 

■h n 

L 

n 


"Combinatory 
tablein which (...) 
theforms of the 
original letters, 
likeallthose 
descended from 
them, are repres- 
ented in terms of 
their development 
over time. From 
them, it can be 
deduced that the 
alphabets of all 
languages reveal 
traces of the an¬ 
dern characters." 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


593 











Script 

&seal 



"lt is highly likely that the children of Sam, 
who colonized even the outermost ends of 
China, also introduced the letters and 
characters here (...) Even if the characters 
of the Chinese were similar to those of 
the Egyptians, they differed greatly in the 
manner of writing, and in the fact that 


Egyptians never (...) used hieroglyphs in 
everyday conversation, as none but the 
ruler was allowed to leam them. In addi- 
tion, the hieroglyphs were not simply 
words, but expressed general ideas and 
entire concepts." 


VII 


m 

tu 


^ V 

F» M 

n 


1 

■b 

ft 



t 

1 


VI V 


3 




A 

-KT 


m 

vK 


Cp 

GL 

& 

8 

% 

I 

* 

ö 

s 

jfe 

M 

7 

# 

% 

\ 

A 



Chinese characters, like Egyptian hiero¬ 
glyphs, are derived from pictograms 
taken from the sphere of natural things. 
The characters in fig. II from agricultural 
things, Fig. III from birds and in Fig. IV 
from worms. 


A. Kircher, La Chine illustr6e: Monuments, 
Amsterdam, 1670 


Script 
& seal 



The characters in 
Fig. XV are based 
on fish. "Fig. XVI 
with the letters 
KLMNOcould not 
be deciphered, so 
we do not know 
what it means." 

A. Kircher, China 
Monumentis, 
Amsterdam, 1667 



"The Chinese are thought to have used the 
figures on the Shell of the tortoise as a 
model for the oldest characters of their 
alphabet. The most curious 'games of 
nature' include the drawings on the snail 
'conus marmoratus' from the Indian Ocean. 
It shows a clear similarity to cuneiform 
writing (...) Experts might study this snail- 
text. At first, I thought of sending it to 
Professor Delitzsch, butthen thought I 
would wait (...)." (August Strindberg, 

A New Blue Book, Munich, 1917) 

A. Kircher, China Monumentis, Amsterdam, 
1667 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


594 


595 







Script 

ftseal 



Despite the testimony of his i6th Century 
contemporaries, the actual existence of 
the black magician John Faust, made fa- 
mous in the plays of Marlowe and Goethe, 
is not easily proven. Several of the best- 
known magic books, some of them from 
the i8th Century, have been attributed to 
him. 

These seals are supposed to have been 
used in a magic rite granting the magician 
"wealth, honour, glory and pleasure". 

"For after death, everything ends." 


The striking similarity of many magical 
seals to Arabic characters is explained by 
their origins. The most important source is 
considered to be a Spanish-Arabic Collec¬ 
tion of magical formulae, astrological dis- 
courses and alchemistic recipes entitled 
Picatrix, which was in circulation in Latin 
translation from the end of the I3th 
Century. 

From: Doktor Fausts Höllenzwang, 
i8th Century , Stuttgart edition , 185t 


Script 
& seal 



According to the Picatrix, the planets 
possess powers "which can exert effects 
specific to their own nature. Accordingly, 
the makers of talismans produce drawings 
of them, when the planets are above them, 
to achieve certain effects, and through 
well-considered combinations of particu- 
lar secret things known to them they 
achieve everything they desire". ( Picatrix , 
London, 1962) It is therefore important for 
the magician to know what earthly things 
are sympathetic or affiliated to a particu- 
lar star, in Order to be able to quote the 
desired astral influence in the form of 
Spirit beings or demons. 

The magic seals used for this are energy 
stations which "have a certain similarity to 
a heavenly picture or with that which the 
soul of the agent desires". (Agrippa) 

Pentaculum Mercurii, in: Doktor Johannes 
Fausts Magia naturalis , Stuttgart , 184g 



In his complicated magical System Gior- 
dano Bruno combined the classical art of 
memory with the rotating discs of Lullian 
combinatory art, assigning the decan im- 
ages of the zodiac, the pictures of the 
planets and the pictures of the phases of 
the moon to the individual rubrics. 

G. Bruno , Opera //, Naples , 1886 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


596 


597 





Script 

&seal 



The Monas Hieroglyphica of the English 
astrologer and mathematician John Dee, 
first published in 1564 in a treatise of 
the same name, enjoyed great popularity 
among the early Rosicrucians and 
alchemists, since it interpreted the glyph 
of "their mercury" as the crowning Sum¬ 
mation of all the signs of the zodiac. 

The upper semicircle is the moon, the 
circle with the point beneath it is the sun, 
and so on. The cross refers to the four ele- 


ments, but also points to birth, crucifixion 
and resurrection. "Dee's hieroglyph 
represents the whole of being, both macro 
and microcosm. This can be applied to 
every hieroglyph. The cipher always 
Stands for the whole of being, even if it 
only consists of one triangle, the simplest 
and most frequently used figure." 

(Dietrich Donat, "Sakrale Formeln im 
Schrifttum des 17. Jh/\ in: Slavische 
Barockliteratur I, Munich, ig70) 


o 


A. Kircher , Oedipus 
Aegyptiacus, Rome, 

1653 



ö 

Exaltatio Lunae in Tauro. 


In his ObelisciAegyptiaci, Kircher derived 
the origin of the Monas hieroglyph from 
th eAnkh, the well-known Egyptian sign of 
life. 

A. Kircher , Obelisci Aegyptiaci, Rome, 1666 



598 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


Toi« USclumäbdco. 


InnotHHebrjiäs. 


Script 

ftseal 



Magic square of 
the sun, with the 
diagonal total of 
111 and the overall 
total of 636. 
"Thedivine names 
that fill thistable 
include both an 
intelligence for 
good and a demon 
forevil."The 
names of the 
star-spirits are 
produced by a 
match between 
the numerical 
valuesand the 
Hebrewalphabet. 

Agrippa von 
Nettesheim, De 
occulta philosophia, 
1510 



Sigmar Polke, Tele¬ 
pathie session II, 
1968 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


599 





Script 

&seal 


The alchemists derived their language of 
signs and riddles directly from the patri- 
archs of their art, from Hermes Trismegis- 
tus, who is identified with the Egyptian 
Thoth, the inventor of hieroglyphic writ- 
ing. It is said that he wished to "remove 
that superior part of the wisdom of the 
world, concerned with Cod, the angels 
and the world (...) even that Science 
(alchemy) which is the holiest and most 
superior of all, from the reading of the 
unworthy". (Adamah Booz, Splendor lucis, 
Frankfurt, 1785) 

Alongside the aim of pure obfuscation in 
the use of these signs and Symbols by the 
hermetics, there was also an attempt at 
elevating the expressive possibilities of 
language into the realm of the sacred. 
Thus, for example, Marsilio Ficino was 
convinced that the divine ideas of things 
are conveyed directly in hieroglyphs. 
"That will be the Golden Age, when all 
words - figure-words - myths - and all 
figures - language figures - will be hiero¬ 
glyphs." (Novalis, Freiberger naturwis¬ 
senschaftliche Studien, I7g8) 

Medicinisch-Chymisch und Alchemistisches 
Oraculum, Ulm, 1783 


Argentum folia- fijT ©ifbrt* S51dtt(cin. 

tum. 1 — 1 — — — — 

Argentum mufi- X36__. __©aitcn> ©über« 
cum. ^ / 

Argentum pifto- ©9/, 1_ 

rium. V ' / 

Argentum vivum # W 17 8 T K -ÜuCCf/©ilber. 
Mercunus viuus, 0\ r \LT/ %/K ’^rt / 

Hydrargyrum. icaurjc*. 

S.rMX.*.lKZ 


Armen? Bolus. $ _ ___Slrmenifc&etfSofo*. 

Arfenicumalbum. o—O.X 00 2 (rfcnic , 

A oS^h, 

J if 

Arrenicum citri- 
num , fiauum - 

luteum. j P 5 Kaufc^gctb. 

‘ Arfe- 


600 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


JFAJ. 


Script 
& seal 


- //////</////// / //' /■//yt 


s ) / C ■ 
/ J ' ' 


* * .♦ 
jMTJr- * % * 


ifet w 

__ ri __ _ 1 

ss ^ ^ 

UNO OH O 

^ r* s 't' v 

.f V 7 * 

o ^ st ^ 

fi T * _ j _ * _f__»_ ___ 


u T r*. T u 




‘S-^c/o r -jfi. - - 2 > + ,-y ^ Jis 

lit c^- A -Ä- ^ oj" ^ g 5 - ^ 

; ^ *.$ ^ gr ^ -Sc ■£-' "-^ + 




.fc, 'i/^ 




In 1826 the 
Swabian poet, 
doctorand 
occultist Justinus 
Kerner took the 
seriously ill clair- 
voyant Friederike 
Hauff into his 
home, and tried to 
heal her with mag- 
netic eures de- 
vised by Mesmer. 
In his Clairvoyant 
ofPrevorst, pub- 
lished in 182g. he 
alsodescribes her 
ability to express 
herseif in herown 
"inner language 
and writing". "She 
said (...)that one 
could survey one's 
whole life after 
death in a single 
such sign." Kerner 
drew comparisons 
with Adam's 
primal language 
which went to the 
heartof things and 
named every 
creature by its 
true name. 

J. Kerner: Die 
Seherin von 
Prevorst, 

Stuttgart, 182g 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


601 


Script 
& seal 


"Inthe wide space 
of heaven(...)are 
figures and signs 
with which one 
can discoverthe 
deepest secrets. 
They areformed 
by the constella- 
tions and stars (...) 
These brilliant fig¬ 
ures arethe letters 
with which the 
Holy and Glorious 
One created 
heaven and earth 
(Zohar) 

"According tothe 
Hebrew rabbis, 
the letters of their 
alphabetare 
formed from the 
figures of the stars 
and arethus full of 
heaven ly myster- 
ies, both because 
of their shape, 
form and meaning 
and also because 
of the numbers 
contained therein 
(Agrippa von 
Netteheim) 

Karl von Eckharts¬ 
hausen, Auf¬ 
schlüsse zur Magie, 
Munich, 1788 



ft v 

'/n ^ »iw:’ * 


<■ 


, ° h ' * .5 

fd« ,1 Ä.V^V 


\i SJO fl * 0 * 3 ?// 

c *1*1 x iy/ 

HCAJIX. ILM CCCfSSTr 

C 3 XH CH ^ t £. £ Jl «T» 

DA ' J nT,uT42N 

?©TtS:5f fo rt & 


The celestial 
alphabet of the 
Southern hemi- 
sphere 


The celestial 
alphabet of the 
northern hemi- 
sphere 


602 


Microcosm: Script & seal 


Apparitions 



"The night sky on 
24.6.24 shows the 
name S. Polke as a 
constellation" 

Sigmar Polke, 
Night-Sky Cloth, 
1968 


Microcosm: Apparitions 


603 











Apparitions 


Apparitions 


ln 1857, Justinus Kerner published his ink¬ 
blot pictures, a technique with which he 
had experimented for decades, in the 
belief that he had found in this aleatory 
art a medium that would bring him into 
closer contact with the spirit world. Since 
1921 Kerner's invention has been applied 
in psychotherapy, in a slightly altered 
form, as the "Rohrschach test". 

Kerner was an early exponent of spiritual- 
ism, which had developed in the Romantic 
age, strongly influenced by Swedenborg's 
visions. In 1788 a Swedenborgian group in 
Stockholm had supposedly managed to 
communicate with spirits via mediums in a 
mesmeric trace. But it was not until the 
middle of the igth Century, when some 
spectacular cases of table-rapping had be- 
come famous, that interest in spiritualism 
and so-called psi phenomena spread like 
an epidemic, forming fertile soil for the 
success story of the Theosophical Society. 








Yves Klein , The 
Vampire , i960 




604 


Microcosm: Apparitions 


Microcosm: Apparitions 


605 


Apparitions 


ln 1894, from the fin de siäcle occult store- 
house, the dramatist August Strindberg 
developed a radical, aleatoric concept 
which he applied, amongst otherthings, in 
the field of photography and photo-chem- 
ical experiments. Thus he took portraits 
with a camera of his own manufacture 
containing a lens of unground glass, to 
capture the soul more authentically on the 
plate. Or eise, as these illustrations show, 
he exposed the plates to the night sky 
in the developing bath, on the assumption 
that the light would be directly trans¬ 
ferred via the electromagnetic waves, re- 
cently discovered by Röntgen. 

A. Strindberg, Celestographs, 1894 



"Quite clearly the spirits, like we mortals, 
have become realists (...) for on certain 
days the pillow represents terrible mon- 
sters, gothic dragons, lindworms (...) A 
newly discovered art from nature! Natu- 
ralistic clairvoyance! Why complain about 
naturalism when, full of possibilities for 
growth and development, it ushers in a 
new art? The gods are returning (...)." 

(A. Strindberg, Inferno, Berlin, 1898) 

A. Strindberg, Inferno painting, Stockholm, 
1901 



606 


Microcosm: Apparitions 


Apparitions 



”A mirror lay on my table, reflecting the 
picture of the moon. I thought: how does 
the mirror capture the moon and reflect it 
when the lens and camera of my eye are 
not there to distort? From the perspective 
of optics, each point on the flat surface of 
the mirror must reflect the light of the 
moon after such and such a law. (...) So I 
switched the mirror for a silver bromide 
plate to achieve a more poweful effect, 
put it in the developer and exposed it at 
the sametime." 

(A. Strindberg, Sylva Sylvarum, 1897) 

A. Strindberg, Celestographs, 1894 



Five years before the theosophist Wassily 
Kandinsky formulated the foundations of 
abstract painting, Annie Besant and 
Charles Leadbeater, who followed 
Blavatsky as director of the Theosophical 
Society, published a book of fifty-seven 
abstract paintings, "thought forms" 
(1905)- 

Plate 8: Unspecified selfless love: 

"A revolving cloud of pure love". 

C. W. Leadbeater, Annie Besant, Thought- 
forms, New York, 1905 


Microcosm: Apparitions 


607 







Apparitions 


"Those who think 
a great deal are 
extremely materi- 
alistic, because 
thinking is matter. 
Thought is also 
matter, likethe 
floor, the wall, the 
telephone. 

Energy, which acts 
as a stencil, 
becomes matter.” 
(Krishnamurti, 
Breakthrough into 
freedom , Frankfurt 
edition, ig73) 

The Hindu boy 
Krishnamurti, 
whom Leadbeater 
and Besant had 
hailed as a new 
Messiah, parted 
Company with the 
Theosophical 
Society in ig2g, 
and beganto work 
as an independent 
teacher. 

Plates 4g and 50: 
Helpful thoughts 

Leadbeaterand 
Besant , Thought- 
forms, New York , 
1905 


608 


Apparitions 



(rarfc *•ifrr ^! 









The dream of a 
deluge-like rain, 
from which Dürer 
awoke on the 
night of 8 June, 
1525, was con¬ 
nected with the 
fear of a flood 
prophesied by var- 
ious astrologers 
fori 524 . 

A. Dürer , Dream 
Vision, 1525 , water- 
colour 



Sigmar Polke, 
Developing pheno- 
mena, Venice 
Biennale , 1986 


Microcosm: Apparitions 


609 




















Apparitions 


Attheend of time, 
the prophets 
Elijah and Enoch, 
who are said to 
have been sent 
alive to Paradise, 
will appear and, 
with these signs, 
show the immin¬ 
ent destruction 
of corrupt Baby- 
lonian Christian- 
ity: the triple cross 
is theTrinity, now 
revealed in all 
things astheirtrue 
signature. The 
sword and the rod 
announce that 
Babylon's force 
will turn against 
itself. The "grim 
wrath-fire of God" 
will soon engulf 
them both, and 
will begin the 
Golden Age of 
natural language 
"in which that 
which has been 
lost in the spirits 
of the letters will 
be rediscovered". 

Die letzte Posaune 
an alle Völker oder 
Prophezeiungen 
Jacob Böhmes , 
Berlin and Leipzig , 
1779 




jDU/eJmtr uit fü ccrytiiLv' in feintmManu/crijotö aJum/rrirst 

habe Li/i uijolcherj&rm emjjTaiwen Abra/uun von JeTflerüld. • 





Wie fit in der Amjitr cLcuner AtlittdnJL. lfr&z c/oAi/A 



J}f/ieAt hier A vom WAeryänp des . inlt Chri/ts JiyflBr:rruu/n.’25^0'- 


610 


Microcosm: Apparitions 


Apparitions 





"It seems not to 
be generally 
known that sound 
produces form as 
well as colour, and 
that every piece of 
music leaves be- 
hind itan impres- 
sion of this nature, 
which persists for 
someconsiderable 
time, and is ciearly 
visible and intelli- 
gibleto those who 
have eyes to see." 

Here we see the 
music of Mendels¬ 
sohn, which 
emerges from the 
organ in the form 
of a balloon 
through the roof 
of a church. "The 
height of this form 
above the tower 
of the church is 
probably a little 
overa hundred 
feet." (C.W. Lead¬ 
beater, Annie 
Besant, Thought- 
forms , New York, 

1905) 

Leadbeaterand 
Besant , Thought- 
forms , 7905 




Microcosm: Apparitions 


611 







































Rotation 


"The essence of God is like a wheel (...), 
the more one looks at the wheel, 
the more one learns about it its shape, 
and the more one learns, 
the greater pleasure one has in the wheel 
(J. Böhme , 1612 ) 











Whirl & Three quarks for Muster Mark!" assumed the existence of seven aggregate 

(J. Joyce, Finnegans Wake) States of matter, including the ethereal, 

magnet the super . e thereal, subatomic and atomic. 

In 1895 Annie Besant and Charles W. Lead- all of which could be "seen through" by 
beater began a decade-long series of clairvoyant people. 

experiments, in which they attempted to 

penetrate the micro-level of matter by Newton's hypothesis of stones as solid, 

using meditation techniques. They inpenetrable particles, had been in exis¬ 

tence for a long 



time, but as early 
as 1895 it was 
suspected that 
these consisted of 
still smaller, elec- 
trically charged 
particles, elec- 
trons. 

In the rotating 
hydrogen atoms 
which appeared to 
thetwotheosoph- 
ists, they discov- 
ered smaller par¬ 
ticles in which 
points of light 
appeared, the so- 
called "subatomic 
or hyper-meta- 
proto-elements". 
These smallest 
particles each con¬ 
sisted of ten inter- 
twined whirls, 
which formed a 
heart-shaped 
body. These par¬ 
ticles form units, 
of which Lead¬ 
beater and Besant 
were ableto 
differentiate a 
total of seven 
basicshapes. 

Leadbeaterand 
Besant , Occutt 
Chemistry , 7 908 


614 


Rotation: Whirl & magnet 


Whirl & 
magnet 



"The whole (hydro¬ 
gen) atom spins 
and quivers, and 
has to be steadied 
before exact Ob¬ 
servation is poss- 
ible. The six little 
bodies are arrang- 
edintwo sets of 
three, forming two 
triangles that are 
not interchange- 
able, but are re¬ 
lated to each other 
as object and 
image." In each of 
the six particles, 
there appear three 
points of light, 
the subatomic 
whirling elements. 

Leadbeater and 
Besant , Occutt 
Chemistry , 7908 

The subatomic 
"hyper-meta- 
proto-element", 
also called a primal 
atom, consists of 
ten energy whirls, 
three thick, lighter 
main whirls and 
seven subsidiary 
whirls. Besant 
and Leadbeater 
compared this 
structure with that 
of the Sephiroth 
tree. 

Leadbeaterand 
Besant , Occutt 
Chemistry , 7908 


Rotation: Whirl & magnet 


615 













Whirl & 
magnet 



Rene Descartes (1596-1650) refuted the to the centre, it is easy to imagine the same 

assumption of the Scholastics that the of the planets." ( Principia Philosophie) 

planets move in a vacuum. According to 

his theory, space is filled with a material This spiral theory inspired William Blake 

that he called 'plenum'. This consists of to write a passage in his poem 'Milton', 

tiny particles which set each other in cen- in which the Puritan poet, upon returning 

trifugal motion and thus form the heavenly to earth, where he must redeem the fe- 
bodies. "We must assume that the entire male parts of his soul, dashes like a comet 
matter of the heavens (...) rotates con- through the solar System. (The snaking 

stantly like a whirl, with the sun at its cen- line in the illustration opposite describes 

tre (...) Just as one can observe the forma- the path of a comet through Descartes' 

tion of Whirlpools in rivers, that individual whirl.) 
grasses floating in it run with the water, 

while others rotate around their own cen- Rene Descartes, Principia Philosophie, 

tre and rotate faster the closer they come Amsterdam, 1656 


616 


Rotation: Whirl & magnet 


Whirl & 
magnet 



"The nature of in- 
finity is this: That 
every thing has 
its/ Own Vortex, 
and when once a 
travellerthro' 
Eternity/ Has 
pass'd that Vor¬ 
tex, he perceives it 
roll backward be- 
hind/ His path, 
into a globe itself 
infolding like a 
sun, / Or like a 
moon, or like a 
universe of starry 
majesty,/(...) As 
the eye of man 
views both the 
east & west, 
encompassing/ Its 
vortex (...)/Thus 
is the earth one 
infinite plane, and 
not as apparent/ 
Totheweak 
traveller confin'd 
beneath the 
moony shade." 
(William Blake, 
Milton, 1804) 

Rene Descartes, 
Principia 
Philosophie, 
Amsterdam, 1656 


Rotation: Whirl & magnet 


617 







Whirl & 
magnet 


Emanuel Swedenborg (1688-1772) was, 
before he devoted himself entirely to his 
Vision of the Beyond, one of the most 
noted scientists of his time. His theories 
about the origin of the solar System were 
considerably influenced by Descartes. He 
took the smallest particles to be points 
which put each other in spiral orbits, and 
thus formed the first substance. He 
termed them "the first or simple Infinite". 
With the addition of the magnetic ele- 
ment, the original solar ocean became a 
Cartesian whirl and it was here that the 
Finita of the fourth Order emerged. These 
formed a kind of crust around the solar 
whirl - which Swedenborg identified with 


the chaos of the ancients ." (Inge Jonsson, 
"E. Swedenborgs Naturphilosophie", in: 
Epochen der Naturmystik, Ed. Faivre/Zim- 
mermann, Berlin, ig7g) (Fig.i) This crust 
dilates until it breaks (Fig. 2) and forms an 
equatorial beit (Fig. 3). The matter thus 
liberated forms spheres on the level of the 
zodiac (Fig. 4), which now revolve around 
the sun as autonomous planets and satel- 
lites (Plate XXVII). 

"This concept marks a further stage of 
development in Descartes' hypothesis, 
that the planetary System arose out of an 
influx of matter from outside into the solar 
whirl. Swedenborg's ideas were actually 



much closer to the vapour theories that 
would be formulated by Buffon, Kant and 
Laplace later on in the i8th Century." 


Emanuel Swedenborg, Opera philosophia et Whirl & 
mineralia, Dresden and Leipzig, 1734 

magnet 


7Zr/B Azrnr 



618 


Rotation: Whirl 8c magnet 


Rotation: Whirl & magnet 


6ig 




Whirl & 
magnet 


The investigation 
of magnetic phe- 
nomena was a 
central focus in 
Swedenborg's 
nature studies. In 
the i/th and i8th 
centuries magnet - 
ism was a blanket 
term covering all 
possible phenom- 
ena inthethresh- 
old zone between 
mind and matter. 
Goethe called the 
magnet "a symbol 
of everything left 
over, for which 
we need seek 
neither words nor 
names". (Sprüche 
in Prosa zur Farben¬ 
lehre) 

"And thus you too, 
my dear man, see 
magnetic man 
while he is still 
bound tothe body 
and thus tothe 
world of the 
senses, emerging 
with extended 
antennae intothe 
spirit world, of 
which he will be 
yourwitness." 
(Justinus Kerner, 
Die Seherin von 
Prevorst, 182g) 

Emanuel 

Swedenborg, 

Opera philosophia 
et mineralia, 
Dresden and 
Leipzig, 1734 





620 


Rotation: Whirl & magnet 



Whirl & 
magnet 


E. Sibley, A Key to 
Magic & the Occu/t 
Sciences, c. 1800 


One major influence on the Romantic 
philosophy of nature was the spectacular 
and widespread magnetic eures of the 
Austrian doctor Franz Anton Mesmer 
(1734-1815) and his theory of "animal 
magnetism". The Freemason and patron 
of Mozart was familiär with the theories 
of Paracelsus and the healing practices 
of Robert Fludd. Like Fludd, he based his 
work on a magnetic bipolarity of the 


human body and the influence of an all- 
pervasive vital fluid, illnesses derived 
from an unharmonic distribution of this 
fluid life-force. At first Mesmer attempted 
a balancing influx via group therapy, in- 
volving the touching of magnetic objects, 
later transferred directly from the doctor 
to the patient through the power of Sug¬ 
gestion. Thus, Mesmer became a pioneer 
of hypnotherapy. 


Rotation: Whirl & magnet 


621 















Divine 

Geometry 



622 


Ernst Chladni (1756-1827) illustrated his 
book Entdeckungen über die Theorie des 
Klangs, (1787), the first comprehensive 
treatment of scientific acoustics, with a 
large number of the sound-figures that are 
produced when a plate covered with a fine 
powder is vibrated with a violin bow. 

The origin of the Indian Yantras is also 
thought to derive from sound-patterns 
such as these. "Everything that we see and 
feel in the universe, from thought or idea 


to matter, is sound in a particular concen- 
tration."(Ajit Mookerjee, Tantra-Kunst, 
Basle edition, ig67/68) 

Novalis, impressed by Chladni's experi- 
ments, observed: "Mightthe letters 
originally have been acoustic figures, 
letters a priori?“ (Novalis, Das Allgemeine 
Brouillon, I7g8/gg) 

Emst Chladni, Entdeckungen über die 
Theorie des Klanges, 1787 



Divine 

Geometry 





From: 14 Hauptschlüssel der Steinmetz¬ 
reichen, in: Der Steinmetz, Hallein, 1980 



"Geometry ex- 
isted beforethe 
creation of things, 
as eternal as the 
spirit of God; it is 
God himself and 
gave him the pro- 
totypes forthe 
creation of the 
world.“ (Johannes 
Kepler, Harmonices 
Mundi, 1619) 

“The Order of a 
unique figure and 
the harmony of a 
unique number 
give rise to all 
things." (Giordano 
Bruno, About the 
Monas, 1591) 



Figure oflove, Giordano Bruno, Articuli 
centrum..., Prague, 1588 



Figure of the spirit, Giordano Bruno, Articuli 
centrum..., Prague, 1588 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


623 








Divine 

Ceometry 


etary orbits: to the Saturn-Jupiter sphere 
the six-sided cube Standing forthe ele- 
ment "Earth", to the Jupiter-Mars sphere 
the pyramid-shaped four-sided tetra- 
hedron (Fire), between Mars and Earth the 
twelve-sided dodecahedron (Ether), be¬ 
tween Earth and Venus the twenty-sided 
icosahedron (Water), and between Venus 
and Mars the eight-sided octahedron (Air). 


In an idea of Plato's, supposedly based on 
the secret teachings of the ancient Egyp- 
tians, the smallest particles in the world 
consist of regulär triangles. These form 
five regulär bodies, the basic units of the 
five elements. (ether, orthe celestial fire, 
was seen as quintessence.) 


According to calculations carried out by 
Johannes Kepler in 1596, the "Geometrical 
God" had allocated these five bodies to 
the precise distances between the plan- 


Kepler had no doubt that in making this 
discovery, which he had to revise a short 
time later, he had 
tapped into the 
ancient hermetic 
source of wisdom. 
"I have robbed the 
golden vesselsof 
the Egyptians," 

\ he confessed, "to 

X x build a holinessfor 

my God, far f rom 
-\ thebordersof 

iff!§|^^ \ Egypt (Harmon- 

\ ices Mundi, 161g) 


J. Kepler, 

Mysterium Cosmo- 
graphicum , 1660 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 



Divine 

Geometry 


Just as theinfinite 
variety of natural 
things emerges 
from the five Pla- 
tonicelemental 
bodies, infinite 
variations of per¬ 
spective can also 
be deduced from 
theirfundamental, 
geometrical struc- 
tures. Nurem- 
berg goldsmith 
Wenzel Jamnitzer 
(1508-1585) con- 
structed 140 such 
geometrical fig- 
ures, then had the 
Zürich artist, Jobst 
Amman make 
copper plates of 
them. "The defini¬ 
tive theory of mat¬ 
ter will, as in Plato, 
be characterized 
by a series of im¬ 
portant require- 
ments of symme- 
try (...). These 
symmetries can no 
longersimply be 
explained through 
figures and pic- 
tures, as was pos- 
sibleinthe case of 
the Platonic bod¬ 
ies, but through 
equivalents." 
(Werner Heisen¬ 
berg, Schritte über 
Grenzen , Munich 
1971) 


W. Jamnitzer , Per- 
spectiva Corporum 
Regularium , 
Nuremberg , 1568 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 










Divine 

Geometry 


Blake's Illustration 
refers to a passage 
in Milton's poem 
on melancholy, 'II 
Penseroso' (1631), 
in which Hermes 
Trismegistus and 
the spirit of Plato 
appearto him at 
night to reveal the 
metaphysical 
worlds. 


In accord with his 
motto, 'Opposi¬ 
tion is true friend- 
ship', Blake re- 
served his most 
violent attacks 
forthefigures 
who had beenthe 
source of the 
greatest Stimula¬ 
tion: Trismegistus- 
Mercury fetters 
the imagination 
with his abstract 
and materialistic 
doctrines. and 
Plato's philosophy 
is characterized by 
bellicose morality 
and virtue(Mars 
in the central 
sphere). Blake de- 
picted Plato's God 
as a hard-hearted 
geometrist with 
the compass of 
deadly reason in 
his hand (right- 
hand sphere). 


W. Blake, Milton 
and the Spirit of 
Plato, c. 1816, 
watercolour 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


Divine 

Geometry 


Pater.. 



MundusvclHomo. 


Sin 


"Note this, that of the knowledge of God 
there are two kinds. one natural, from the 
light of nature. which does not yet bring 
rebirth or bliss (Philosophia as the dark 
side), and a supernatural knowledge from 
the light of faith or merey, and herein lies 
complete bliss (Theologia as the bright 
side)." 

V. Weigel, Introductio hominis, in 
Philosophia Mystica, Neustadt, 1618 



VrUias eUtntiit 


Vnus'Deus 




The oneness of God is expressed in the 
visible, elemental world, by the polarity of 
rest and movement as the fixed and the 
drawing legs of the compass. The two are 
linked by "the bond of love or justice". 

R. Fludd, Utriusque Cosmi, Vol. II, 

Frankfurt, 1621 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


627 





Ceometry 



The 'Paradoxa Emblemata' of Dionysius bohemian circles, including the Philadel- 

Andreas Freher (1649-1728) never phia society headed by John Pordage and 

appeared in print, but they did circulate in the Anglican mystic Jane Leade. 
a number of handwritten copies in English 


628 


Rotation: Divine Ceometry 



The extraordinary level of abstraction in 
these 153 hieroglyphs or emblem pictures 
corresponds to the theme: the relation- 
ships between unground and ground, be- 
tween nothing and something, unity and 


variety. The Zohar and Böhme both iden- 
tify the primal point present in all things, 
the eye of the needle that connects the 
two ends, with Sophia, the divine matrix. 


Ceometry 

"By this means 
they are Com- 
bined. Here is 
Labour, & there is 
Rest." 

D.A. Freher , Para¬ 
doxa Emblemata , 
manuscript, 
i8th Century 


Rotation: Divine Ceometry 


629 









Divine 

Geometry 


ln Masonicsym- 
bolismthecom- 
pass Stands for 
reason. While 
workisdoneinthe 
lodge, the com- 
passandthe set- 
square lie crossed 
on the Bible.They 
are called the 
'three great 
lights', testimony 
to "the omnipo- 
tence, justice and 
mercy of the 
supreme architect 
of heaven and 
earth". The plumb 
tests innerauthen- 
ticity and outer 
straightness. 

"Through labour 
and experience", 
"the first and final 
(corner-) stone of 
the Church of 
Jerusalem" is 
found: "light from 
the darkness". 

P. Lambert, 
Freemasons at 
work, London , 178g 





630 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


Divine 

Geometry 





[Halillilj 


In the 

Pythagorean- 
Christian cosmo- 
logy of the Free¬ 
masons, God isthe 
supreme architect 
of a perfect geo- 
metric cosmic Or¬ 
der, with brotherly 
love asthe me- 
asure of all things. 

"For we are 
labourers together 
with God: ye are 
God's husbandry, 
ye are God's build- 
ing. Accordingto 
the grace of God 
which is given 
unto me, as a wise 
master-builder, 

I have laid the 
foundation, and 
another buildeth 
thereon. But let 
every man take 
heed how he 
buildeth thereon. 
Forother founda¬ 
tion can no man 
lay thanthat is 
laid, which is Jesus 
Christ." (1 Corin- 
thians 3, 9-11) 

Cod measuring the 
world with the 
compass , c. 7250, 
Bible Moralisee 


631 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 




















































Divine 

Geometry 


1 




For Blake, reason 
representsthe 
outer limit of en- 
ergy. If separated 
from its centre, 
the imagination, 
it becomes a 
Satanic, veiling 
power. Here, the 
saturnine creator 
God, Urizen, is 
creating the'mute 
sphere' (Ulro), the 
"circled cage or 
the distempered 
sphere of Imagina¬ 
tion of f rozen 
heaven" in which 
man "runs about in 
the circle of his 
earthly body". 
(Abraham von 
Franckenberg, 
Oculus sidereus, 

1643) 

Urizen isthehid- 
den God of the 
Deists, separated 
from his mechan- 
ical universe and 
his creations. 

W. Blake, Europe, 
1794 







632 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


Divine 

Geometry 



Here, Newton is sitting in the gloomy 
waters of Ulro, constructing a physical eye. 
The whole world is God's organ of per- 
ception, he wrote in the first edition of 
the Opticks (1706). For Blake, however, 
Newton's design of a material and func- 
tional universe mirrors his own 'simple 
vision'. "He who sees the infinite in all 
things sees God. He who sees the ratio, 
sees only himself." ( There is no Natural 
Religion, 1788) 

W. Blake, Newton, 1795 






xr 1 i ^ 



■ F r* Sflfl 1 : *v~ H|Ai 










‘A 











Franciscus Aguilonis, 
Optica, 1611 


Joyce interprets the circle that Newton is 
drawing with the compass in Blake's 
picture as a 'cyclone'. ( Finnegans Wake, 
p. 294)The word refers on the one hand 
to Blake's own 'optics', according to which 
sight, borrowing from Descartes and 


Böhme, acts like an open, Creative whirl. 
On the other hand it refers to Newton's 
materialistic 'one-eyed-ness' (Cyclops), 
based on the idea that one can "see with 
the eye and not through the eye". 
(Blake) 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


633 






















Divine 

Geometry 


Divine 

Geometry 


On the subject of his book 'Finnegans Wake', 
on which he was working at the time and 
which was to occupy him for seventeen 
years between ig22 and ig3g, Joyce wrote 
to a patron: 'Tm working on a machine 
with only one wheel. Without spokes, of 
course. The wheel is a perfect square." 


Joyce would not be Joyce if the gap that 
clearly yawns between the two phrases 
could not be meaningfully closed. There 
is much in the book about keys that must 
be found, and the closing passage includes 
the words: "The Keys to. Given!". 



Not only does the 'Wake' deal in many 
places with hermetic motifs, subjecting 
language itself to a fundamental process 
of transformation - its external structure 
is also based on the alchemistic process. 
Like Blake and Swift, Joyce used the 
techniques which Fulcanelli identified as 
characteristic of the language of the al- 
chemists: 'Double meanings, approxima- 
tions, word-play and homophonies". 
(Fulcanelli, Le Mystere des Cathedrales, 
Paris, ig25) 

The "rotary processus", designed to trans- 
fer the four-elemental disharmony of the 
prima materia and the four chapters of 
the book into the perfect roundness of 
the lapis, is externally accomplished in 
the well-known effect whereby the clos¬ 
ing words of the book, "(...) a long the" 
are supposed to flow into the opening: 
"riverrun past Eve and Adam's (...)". 


Joyce provided crucial references on pages 
293-234, in which the twin sons of the 
Protagonist Anna Livia Plurabelle are pre- 
occupied with finding the solution to a 
geometrical problem. Joyce took the dia- 
gram from a commentary to Euclid by the 
Neoplatonist Proclus. The intersections 
ALP stand for the initials of the mother. 
The accompanying text, full of references 
to Blake's mythology and his picture of 
Newton, reveals that behind the point P 
for Plurabelle Stands the Creek letter Rho, 
which is written like the Latin P. (Cf. 
Alexander Roob, CS IV, der Punkt rho, Ed. 
Kunsthalle Nuremberg, 1992) 

A is inverted as V or U on the mirror-axis L 
(for Liffey, the river that flows through 
Dublin), and thus we have, as a lower (plu- 
tonic) counterpart to the transcendental 
platoniccik-n, Blake's world of darkness, 
Ulro, the "vegetable cell" (295) in which 


man vegetates in a purely physical 
sense. 

Rho/P is the "cloukey to a worldroom 
beyond the roomworld" (100), and the 
anagram of rho: "Ohr für oral, key for crib" 
(302) serves not only as a key to the cryp- 
togram, but also to the cryptic nature of 
the book itself, which is a sound-book, 
word-music. Here, Joyce used a series of 
encryption techniques similar to those of 
John Dee in his Monas Hieroglyphica. 

Nestling in the seam between the begin- 
ning and end of the book lies 'theohri' 
(theory), and it should be born in mind 
that the beginning of the book, as in 
Plato's cycle of the world, is a recursive 
one, as the following reading suggests: 
'the ohr/er'. ("Orthat both may be con- 
templated simultaneously?" 109) 


Joyce was also familiär with Madame 
Blavatsky's interpretation of the letter T 
(Creek 'Tau') as an androgynous symbol 
of the "reciprocal Containment of two op- 
posite principles in one, just as the Saviour 
is mystically held to be male-female". 

(H.P. Blavatsky, The Secret Doctrine, 1888) 
This might mean, for the end of the book, 
that an invisible theos contains not only 
a he-rho (hero) but also a she-rho (chi-rho: 
Christ). 

"Exclusivism: the Ors, Sors and Fors, 
which?" (299) 'Rho/P' generates a whole 
series of hermetic associations, familiär 
from the picture series of Janus Lacinius: 
English 'rope', the 'Tau' (dew) of the Rosi- 
crucians; French 'roi', the king, and 'or', 
gold and, in Hebrew, light. And of course 
the tail-biter 'ouroboros', as the Proto¬ 
type of endless rotation. 



Alexander Roob, 
CSV, Ed. Bernd 
Schulz, Klagenfurt, 
1995 (öfter Ernst 
Mach, Analyse der 
Empfindungen, 
1886) 


634 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


635 


Divine 

Geometry 


Against the abyss of uncreated matter 
Stands the divine Trinity, and, through the 
holy name, it generates the three conson- 
ant intervals of the octave, the fifth and 
the fourth, which, according to the law of 
the Pythagorean tetractys, produce the 
entire spectrum of phenomena in the ele- 
mental, the celestial and angelic worlds. 

R. Fludd , Utriusque cosmi , Vol. II, 
Oppenheim 1619 



m Diatesferonm 




"Although God himself delights in the odd 
numberof the Trinity, nonetheless he 
unfolds himself profoundly through the 
quadrinity in all things: thus he finally 
enters the physical for the sake of its com- 
prehensibility." According to Bruno, the 
geometrical figure is the visible number. 
Through the power of numbers "humans 
can become cooperators of operating 
nature". (Giordano Bruno. On the Monas, 
Hamburg edition, iggi) 

Figure ofthe quadrinity, from Giordano 
Bruno, Vol. I, Naples, 1886 



636 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


2 >ic Gebe ijt ia unb ou 4 bera SEBaffer beftonben. 2 t. 3. 5. 


Wheel 


EE0M3M 

QEMOVjVM 

2 B£> 9 i£ 

Fiat 
Natura 
Primum Mobile. 

Prima Materia. 

Quinta E/Icntia. 

Qnatuor Elementa. 

Lapis Philofophorum. 

frurr. 


XH» ganfct Dlatut 
Slonnilnt nach 



in fc^ic^n 


i4Hi 


Firmament 6t Element. 
Pater 6t Mater. 

JttnWr. 

Macrocoamut. 

Mlcrocoamuc. 

Anlnulla. 

Vegetahilii 6t Terrrftria. 
MlneratU 6t Metalle. 
Snlphur, Mcrcnrlu« 6 t SaL 


"Transforming na¬ 
ture is nothing but 
driving the ele- 
ments around in a 
circle." (Arnald de 
Villanova, Chymical 
Writings, Vienna 
edition, 174g) 

Secret figures of 
the Rosicrucians, 
Altona, 1785 


O 


•wuiXipiv 

T0*v 

•a[E3ipey uinpium|q 

z *a *i -uar) -ajjjpgg m;<j jnu >jjq;<u(pJ mu# *wq mqj 


Jgnis Philofophorum 

iimCMIIa 6c frcrtdflimu» oreultalitm. 
t»«** **> 6 e* Jmn. 

© 04 k Oaa (tun: 


«Irttt Gtl», ®.d, «atu (nt (nur: 

€>e frag tu UM an* Utentl« f tu«. 

Carau« mir* hV»n*, ft:», wui an* rat} (nur, 

•rtlrt telna JUnbtt Im frurr. 

®wl|. niM im* mvltn g. hn (am: 

©# Uten uat fktrUn (• tan (mir. 

Uat fepn (tun, uat Mdtea Im ]mt. 
y* ®tl*n unb OM* mit« eOrt p (am. 

ua* ®r*t «ryVu Im gaia 
U>* mit« mUl*> da »Irrfa« pttlofopblfVfe Jrurr. 

fgnU. Q. E. Coelrft. 
©Irrmal Ci er XVI 3 rtlm 


Aqua Philofophorum h. c. 

Mrrcur.ua PrlmaterWi« CathoUcua. 

TOaffn ig Wann unb MrIVt BWTfr; 

©ent ^(min (t *rt Wnfm rrgiwt Wattn; 

©n ».lfm ©tttn mtUM tbri»cn «.IT<r. 

©<nn*4 *4ut »It estil «l<ti fai* ein «affn. 

8ru't »tttmit Im «afin 
Un» IttM im «alter. 

‘Har* tut Joint Waget. 

Iln» (mV *«« Jnm im Wagte: 

©• mit* nn fturlj SBafftr 

01A* ein Marfl ftfel*m ©ttn • Waffn. 

3g Vn XlaMrn ein Mtirtlf Wäger, 

©tTjr&rt »ad* tflt »nt Ctrl |a (Bagn- 

Wirb gtnfnit. ff*«, (aal, »Ua Mt ©lonml Wäger. 

ClgtTlr, taUInlv, folnr un» pulrrftctr taa Waget; 

Pu4 brr ptxlofopbm »Wrf»d| Ut.tta» Wag«, 

Uta» tntu rt am »egm ftm** Ig. alt» Mt Jhtag p CMt*. 

A<| ua Q E. Sacmi. 
Clirmal Citt merbm XVI 3trlm 
f» mH hn» au« btt 

ELEMENTE K. 


Rotation: Divine Geometry 


637 





Wheel 



The System of the four elements and 
humours has a macrocosmic equivalent in 
the four compass points and the winds. 
Isidore of Seville, the greatest encyclo- 
paedist of the Middle Ages (c. A.D. 
560-636) added two further winds to 
each of the main winds, in analogy to the 
elemental qualities. These bring good 
or bad weather. 

Left: the rough north wind (septentrio) is 
cold and brings snow. Added to it are 
circius (Creek thrascias), which brings 
snow and hail, and aquilo (boreas), which 
is frosty and dry. 

Top: the east wind (subsolanus) is moder¬ 
ate. To its left blows the drying vulturnus 


(caecias). Eurus (sorios) on the right, waters 
the clouds. 

Right: the south wind (auster), which is 
also used as a Symbol for the Holy Spirit, 
brings heavy clouds and light showers, 
and encourages the growth of plants. 
Euroauster (euronotus) on the right, is 
warm, austroafricanus (libonotus) on the 
left, warm and mild. 

Bottom: the west wind (Zephyrus) is the 
gentlest wind. It blows away the cold of 
winter. Africus (Ups) on the right, brings 
heavy storms, corus (agrestes) on the left, 
brings clouds to the east. 

Encyclopaedic manuscript anthology, 
Cologne c. A. D. 800 



In the sun dwelis 
the divine central 
fire, the 'soul of 
the world', which 
is shown here 
transmitting its 
vivifying ray of en- 
ergy to Saturn, 
which in turn 
guides it intothe 
north wind. Fludd 
calledthe winds 
"the angels of the 
Lord (...) which 
realize the word 
of God".They are 
"his lambent 
servants", which 
bring the salt of 
life. 

R. Fludd , 

Philosophia Sacra, 
Frankfurt, 1626 


A. Dürer, Die Armil - 
larsphäre, 1525 



Rotation: Wheel 


Rotation: Wheel 


639 










Wheel 


Wheel 



ln a vision of the prophet Zechariah 
(6,1-8), the four winds appear in the form 
of four chariots pulled by horses of various 
colours. There are correspondences in the 
elements, humours and four stages of the 
hermetic Work to these four directions 
and colours. 

"The black horses pull northwards (Earth , 
Melancholy, Nigredo), the white pull west- 
wards (Water, Phlegm , Albedo), the red 
eastwards (Fire, Choler, Rubedo) and the 
bay southwards (Air, Sanguis, Peacock's 
Tail)“. 


"Four angel princes are placed above the 
four winds (...), Michael above the east 
wind, Raphael above the west wind, 
Gabriel above the north wind, Uriel above 
the south wind. (...) Likewise there are 
also four of the evil spirits (...) The Hebrew 
rabbis call them (...) Samael, Azazel, Azael 
and Mahazael. Among them, in turn, there 
rule other princes and heads of legions. 
Vast is the number of demons which have 
their own particular tasks." (Agrippa von 
Nettesheim, De occulta philosophia, 1510) 

R. Fludd, Philosophia Sacra, Frankfurt, 7 626 



In the visions of Fludd and Böhme, influ* 
enced by the Cabbala, God consists of the 
two centrifugal and centripetal forces of 
will and unwill, or light and darkness. From 
his dark side emerge the demonic powers 
which bring illness. Human beings "as 
creatures of light can only be saved and 
remain healthy by praying to God." The 


drawing shows prayer being listened to, 
and man protected by the four archangels 
in the 'Fortress of Health'. They success- 
fully repel the Stimuli to illness, which 
Fludd called 'invisible seed'. 

R. Fludd, Medicina Catholica, 

Frankfurt, 7629 


640 


Rotation: Wheel 


Rotation: Wheel 


641 










Wheel 


Wheel 



Here the "Fortress of Health" is being suc- 
cessfully attacked by the demonic powers, 
as the patient has in various ways broken 
the Commandments. Doctor Fludd is 
taking his pulse and examining his urine. 
These are indicators of the level of 
"volatile salts" in the body. These salts 
alone keep the life in the body in working 
Order, for they are fluid, divine sparks of 
light. They are transported to man as 
God's messengers, and drawn from the air 
by the Chemical action of the left ventricle 
of the heart. The impure parts are exhaled 
and excreted in the urine as sal ammoniac. 


In a series of alchemical experiments with 
wheat, which Fludd described in his 
Philosophicall Key (Robert Fludd and his 
PhilosophicallKey, Ed. A.G. Debus, New 
York, ig7g), he tried to isolate this 
spiritual substance. He described a "white 
christalline spirit" a pure saltpetre. Böhme 
called it the 'celestial salitter'. 

R. Fludd, Integrum Morborum 
Mysterium, Frankfurt, 1631 



The microcosm at 
the intersection of 
the compass 
points, with the 
four main and 
eight subsidiary 
winds. The north 
wind on the left 
corresponds to the 
element air (san- 
guis), the east 
wind at the top 
corresponds to the 
element fire 
(choler), the south 
wind onthe right 
corresponds to the 
element water 
(phlegm), the west 
wind at the bot- 
tom corresponds 
to the element 
earth (melancho- 
lia). 

Astronomical 

manuscript, 

Bavaria, 

I2th Century 


Rotation: Wheel 


Rotation: Wheel 


643 


642 











Wheel 


Accordingto Johan 
Künigsperger, the 
hot and dry east 
winds (top)arethe 
healthiest, while 
the warm and 
moist south winds 
(right) come "from 
warm countries / 
with many poison- 
ous beasts /that 
poison the air". 
They "dull the 
blood in man", 
and are therefore 
to be avoided.The 
moist and coid 
west winds "bring 
fog and clarity/ 
and all three are 
healthy". The cold 
and dry north 
winds are also "all 
healthy/ and 
strengthen and 
empower". 
(Temporal des 
Johan Künigsperger, 
Frankfurt, 1502) 

Wind table, manu- 
script of Hradisko 
Benedictine 
monastery, 
i 2 th Century 



'irr l\ipru .tnttn luu-tt yrbirlr sflttuit itniulhtTtiic’cnmm den co 
Mibctrmfcnr TXünuncii'mccdii im-< ttrpjülu>hfUtLi cot- t^nre" 
jciUi&'&utoney TiftmitfmmiUV'claniifjtprciuCiin qtixlib« wrunS 
nttvou xt ncc .umr tuincc cauCi dicctdr 7*1 meectu-tarn luhipp-tmtporv 
rfmmuft Zitanf fünftem mfuibont Imc 1 edebvurr S o KnuTf.Cohftr 
' gurfupmrn upir 0 ccfi C. Jtrm.S enenufbaxovSxbimifa 
tn.niwi.tjtu Ahcmf .ipHf.lOpctiiXtiZni dn*rcn pftci urbem mm litt 
CoiiftHionC llluflrnn fV 




644 


Rotation: Wheel 




Wheel 



In the 6th Century, Isidore of Seville col- 
lected the traditions of the ancient, nat¬ 
ural philosophers and combined them with 
the teachings of the Church Fathers. The 
basis for his macro-microcosm diagrams 
were Empedocles' theory of the four ele- 
ments (5th Century B.C.), the Aristotelian 
theory of the qualities and the transfer- 
ability of the elements, which forms the 
basis of alchemy and Hippocrates' theory 
of the four humours (5th Century B.C.) 


The four figures represent the seasons in 
the wheel of the twelve months. Their 
microcosmic equivalents are the four 
humours. Autumn corresponds to black 
gall (Melancholia - Earth), summer to 
yellow gall (Cholera - Fire), spring to the 
sanguine (Air) and winter to the phieg- 
matic humour (Water). 

Isidore of Seville, De natura rerum, 
manuscript, gth Century 


Rotation: Wheel 


645 


Uiiuni - 















Wheel 


For Böhme the cross was the fundamental signature of all things, 
consisting of the two axes of the machinery at work through all three 
worlds. The glyph of this wheel © appears in Rosicrucian alchemy as 
the symbol of the arcane 'salt of the bond', which God sealed with 
the people of Israel, and which was renewed by the body of Christ 
for the whole of humanity. And, according to Böhme, it signified the 
heart of God, which "is like to the round 0 , like the whole rainbow, 
which appears divided, for the cross is its division." 

The rainbow that rose above the ebbing Flood is the most familiär 
Old Testament sign. Newton's optics gave it a new twist as a physical 
phenomenon occurring when light is broken down. Goethe and Blake 
called this phenomenon an illusory 'spectre'. And thus, in Blake's 
mythology, the appearance of the complete rainbow arising from the 
perfect harmony of the four elemental creatures (Zoas) and over the 
dark sea of time and space, heralds the triumph of the visonary over 
the restrictions of the physical world of phenomena. 

To arrive at these four compass points of the cross-signature, 
Böhme had to transform the fundamental Paracelsian trinity into a 
quadrinity, by dividing the original sulphur into two aspects through 
the salnitric fire-crack emanating from it: 1. Sul: Soul, light and 
2. Phur: Sharp fire. In addition there are, 3. Mercurius: desire and 
mobility and 4. Sal: fearfulness. In Gichtel's title engraving, the four 
creatures or Evangelists are set out in the outermost circle of the 
zodiac: Taurus (Luke), Lion Q (Mark), Eagle: Scorpio TTUJohn), 
man: Aquarius sz (Matthew). 

The six planets fall within the inner circle of the Great Wheel. 
Only Mercury is absent, because in its mobility it embodies the 
wheel itself. This wheel is "the source of life and rain, and the source 
of the senses (...) and as the Planetary Wheel has its instanding, so 
too is the birth of a thing". This 'instanding' (Instehen) could be read 
from the signatures or lineaments of a creature, for each planet or 
'source spirit' is expressed in a specific proportion in each being. 


646 


Rotation: Wheel 



The properties of 
the seven planets 
or'source spirits': 


Saturn is contrac- 
tion (sour); 

Jupiter: mildness 
in Sul; Mars: 
power in Phur; 
Venus: sweet 
desire; Sol: the 
heart-centre. In 
her double aspect, 
Luna Sophia is 
both earthly body 
and 'celestial 
being' (tincture). 
She is the bride of 
the Christ-Lamb, 
which gleams 
like an inner sun 
through the celes¬ 
tial Jerusalem or 
the spiritual form 
of the zodiac. 


J. Böhme , 
Theosophische 


Amsterdam , 1682 


Rotation: Wheel 

































Wheel 


Christ as a cosmic 
man surrounded 
by the four points 
of the compass, 
the four main 
winds and four 
wind*demons. 

Weltchronik, 
Heiligenkreuz, 
early I3th Century 



( (tnffcvcittf fciftonv' Cktt {'lirrrjrT t*rn" cjrci fhijiil Cirrr Iccnmj nurm* ini’.j'mldJkcw rVcui^r 

nt"ir. ^jvu’ • «ritupufihva niiyn* flu ßimu .jirnni7.ti.i tnja .j<iinC btbJc «Ja !numjur rrtv tumsj« fnttwj 

wmpcun0n< i& pnrn . 1 ^*Ji’mflrvT 1 r.WjiuK 'uhnroiA ’s tfpl»*ini»niiwrii<^r oprindu.cp'rffitfitoaim-' 

fltrrcnr jfrt' adncru ijrffir fan>M M fir<4lrrr.kfw.i J »hCToW (hoU jwffuiT p jAf hJlno nvitMiw ämMtorut »U-* 
liWrr rm? ivw/ti rkrttT uyfluK jflyfl.cw Invwte» C-.>» Xtu (ojnm nj fhcvc u 
■* , ^ Ir,Srr ****** r ' rTrl nvuw. /;jt.«ainnW(f p jur.trrHtf uCnttf. njfrCff#»*- •> Cirtv.Tr* ttf JC*fSJ*)£rrMn* t|«|t .p ftn«# 
Br tn .«r»n .«Chiie yhjr* » ' — 


V, 


% 




648 


Rotation: Wheel 


Wheel 



The Vision of 
Ezekiel, who saw 
fourfigures: "And 
every one had four 
faces, and every 
one had four 
wings. (...) As for 
the likeness of 
their faces, they 
four had the face 
of a man, and the 
face of a lion, on 
the right side; and 
they four had the 
face of an ox on 
the left side; they 
four also had the 
face of an eagle 
(...) and their 
appearance and 
their work was as 
it were a wheel 
in the middle of 
a wheel (...) and 
their rings were 
full of eyes round 
about (...) And 
when the living 
creatures went, 
the wheels went 
by them(...)for 
the spirit of the 
living creatures 
was in the wheels 
(...) And abovethe 
firmamentthat 
was over their 
heads was (...)the 
appearance of a 
man (...).** (Ezekiel 
1.4-26) 

W. Blake, Ezekiel's 
vision, c. 1805 


Rotation: Wheel 


649 


















Wheel 


Through the circu- 
latory transforma- 
tion of the 
elements and 
humours, the op- 
posites are united 
and matter passes 
fom its temporary, 
heterogeneous 
state into a 
permanent, homo- 
geneous state. 

"Because the first 
Adam and his 
descendants had 
their origin in the 
fragile elements, 
so the same 
combination must 
necessarily perish. 
But the second 
Adam (...) is made 
of pure elements, 
sothat he remains 
eternal. What 
consists of simple 
and puresub- 
stance remains 
indestructible in 
eternity." (Aurora 
consurgens, early 
i6th Century) 

L Thurneysser , 
Quinta essentia, 
1574 



HXGMAT 


SANGVIN 


COUE.HJC 


AtLA-NC 






*4 





65O 


Rotation: Wheel 


Wheel 



mccc 


os- 

map 


A work in the in¬ 
sular style of man- 
uscript painting 
featuring Celtic 
ornamentation, 
whose influence 
spread to the 
continent in the 
7th and 8th cen- 
turies with the 
foundation of Irish 
monasteries. 

The "tetramorph" 
is formed from 
various parts of 
theemblematic 
animals of the 
evangelists. 

Joyce called it 
"Mamalujo“: 

"They were the 
big four, the four 
maaster waves of 
Erin (..) Mat and 
Ma and Lu and Jo". 
(Finnegans Wake) 
They squat in 
pairs, and their 
quadrinity gradu- 
ally becomes a ro- 
tating circle. Now 
they are "signs on 
the salt" (p. 3g3), 

® Celtic crosses. 

Miniature in a 
Gospel from Trier or 
Echternach, c. 775 


Rotation: Wheel 


651 







Wheel 


W. Blake, 

Jerusalem, 

1804-1820 


1 



The 'Zoas' (Blake used the Greek plural 
'Zoa' as a singulär) are the four "living 
creatures" that appear in the Vision of 
Ezekiel and in the Revelation of John. 
Blake called them the "four Mighty Ones 
in every Man", they embody his "eternal 
senses", and their four faces look in the 
direction of all four worlds. In the west 
dwells Tharmas, the physical body. As* 


signed to it is the element Water, the 
sense of taste, painting, the world of birth 
(generatio) and the continent of America. 
In the south rules Urizen, reason, with the 
element Air, the sense of sight and archi- 
tecture. Its world is dark Ulro and its con¬ 
tinent Africa. Luvah in the east is passion. 
To it belongs fire, the sense of smell, mu- 
sic, the intermediate realm of imagination 


And the continent of Asia. Los-Urthona in 
the north embodies the twofold salt- 
.1*.poct of the imagination. Urthona is the 
1 olcstial salitter", and Los its earthly 
toprcsentative(Sol, Sal or Archeus). Its 
eloment is the earth of Paradise, its sense 
organ the ear, which receives the sounds 
of the spheres, its art is poetry, its world is 
eternity and its continent Europe. 

When Adamic humanity, in the form of the 
ginnt Albion, had imagined itself away 


from the divine centre into the periphery 
of egoism, and began to protect its celes- 
tial companion Jerusalem from her regulär 
bridegroom, the Christ-Lamb, Albion feil 
into the death-sleep of Ulro. This event, in 
which Luvah took over the world of Urizen 
in the south, brought in its wake the end- 
less war of the Zoas. Since then the emo- 
tions have ruled reason, which in turn sup- 
presses the imagination, the divine in man. 

Gospel of Rossano, 6 th Century 



652 


Rotation: Wheel 


Wheel 


Rotation: Wheel 


653 




Wheel 



The basic powers of man in the Indian Sym¬ 
bol of the team of horses: 

"The seif (atma, the divine core of being) 
owns the chariot, the body is the chariot, 
intuitive distinction and recognition is the 
charioteer; the function of thought is the 
reins; the powers of the senses are the 
horses; and the objects or spheres of 
sensory perception are the track. Man, 
in whom are combined the seif and the 


powers of the senses and of thought, is 
called the eater or the enjoyer." 

(Katha Upanishad, 8-6th Century B.C.) 

The horses, shown wild and uncontrolled 
in the picture, are interpreted in sequence 
from the finest to the coarsest sensory 
perceptions: hearing - seeing - smelling - 
tasting - feeling. 

Bhaktivedanta Book Trust, 1987 


654 


Rotation: Wheel 


Iht» Sufi influenced teachings of the Cau- 
• .man G.l. Gurdjieff (i873-ig4g) were 
.umed .it destroying man's illusory self-im- 
■uje, and revealing him as a being guided 
by mechanical reflexes. Gurdjieff distin- 
guished four centres in man: the centre 
for motion, thought and feeling and that 
of the form-giving apparatus. These four 
should be correctly organized as a hier- 
archical team of passenger, chariot, driver 
and horse. On the 
cover for the Pro¬ 
gramme of his 
institute, which 
he founded at 
Fontainebleau in 
1922, they are 
shown as the four 
creatures in the 
enneagram. 

Gurdjieff's most 
famous pupils and 
acolytes included 
the Russian mystic 


P. D. Ouspensky, who, with his writings on 
the fourth dimension, influenced suprem- 
atism, the theatre director Peter Brook, 
the architect Frank Lloyd Wright and the 
composer de Hartmann, who worked with 
Kandinsky. 

Alexander de Salzmann, cover-design for 
the Programme ofthe "Institute for the Har¬ 
monie Development of Man“, Tiflis, 1919 


Wheel 


KNOw-to under stand-to £>£: 



Rotation: Wheel 


655 


















The figure of the enneagram is formed 
by linking the two "sacred cosmic funda¬ 
mental laws" of the Triamasikamno 
(Trinlty) and the Heptaparaparschinoch 
(Sevenness). The former consists of 
the powers Surp-Ortheor (affirmation: 
father), Surp-Skiros (negation: son) and 
Surp-Athanatos (reconciliation: holy Spirit). 


The enneagram indicates the two points in 
the octave (3 and 6) at which forces must 
come from without so that the direction of 
motion is not reversed. To free the active 
will of man from the mechanical associ- 
ations of the ordinary, Gurdjieff began to 
study the diagram with his pupils as a 
Choreographie figure, assigning special 
motions to the individual points. 


Gurdjieff: "The enneagram \sperpetual 
motion (...) The understanding of this 
symbol and the ability to make use of it 
give man very great power. It is the per- 
petuum mobile and it is also the philoso- 
phers'stone of the alchemists." In Order to 
understand it, one must think of it"(...) in 
motion". (P.D. Ouspensky, In Search of 
the Miraculous) 


Origin ofthe 'Primum Mobilefrom: Robert 
Fludd, Philosophie Sacra, Frankfurt, 1626 


656 


Rotation: Wheel 


Wheel 


Gurdjieff: "Every complete whole, every 
cosmos, every organism, every plant is an 
enneagram (...) But not every one of these 
enneagrams has an internal triangle. The 
Internal triangle indicates the presence of 
higher elements according to the table of 
hydrogens' in a particular organism." 


"Everything can be included and read in 
the enneagram. A man can be quite alone 
in the desert and he can trace the ennea¬ 
gram in the sand and in it read the eternal 
laws ofthe universe" (P.D. Ouspensky, In 
Search ofthe Miraculous). 



I» 


Rotation: Wheel 


657 





Wheel 


According to the research of his pupil J.G. 
Bennett, Gurdjieff encountered the en- 
neagram around igoo, as a dance-figure in 
a community of Naqshbandi dervishes in 
Uzbekistan. Their teaching methods and 
rules bear remarkable parallels with Gurd- 
jieff's own techniques. The Naqshbandi 
are said to refer to the traditions of the 
secret association of the 'Pure Brothers of 
Basra', formed around A.D. 950. They de- 
veloped an influential universal System in 
which Greek, Persian, Hebrew, Chinese 
and Indian traditions merged beneath the 
overall heading of a pseudo-Pythagorean 
numerical mysticism. They taught that all 



1. Combinatory figure 


worlds and natural phenomena are struc- 
turally based on the number nine. Their 
encyclopaedic writings, which "are among 
the most important works in the history of 
Chemistry (...) that have come down to us 
from the early Arab period" (E.O. von 
Lippmann, Enstehung und Ausbreitung der 
Alchemie, Berlin, 1919-1954), spread to 
Spain around the year 1000. Ramon Lull 
may have come across them in the I3th 
Century, using them as the foundation for 
his 'Ars generalis' based on the number 
nine (cf. p. 286 ff). 

R. Lull, Ars brevis, Paris, 1578 



2. Combinatory figure 


658 


Rotation: Wheel 



Wheel 


Above the worldly 
"Perpetuum Mo¬ 
bile" of thezodiac 
and the planets, 
theenneagram 
from Lull's second 
combinatory fig¬ 
ure ascends into 
the super-celestial 
sphere. Here, it 
represents the 
3x3 celestial hier- 
archies. 


According tothe 
teachings of the 
pseudo-Dionysios 
Arepagita, the 
lowest rank of 
angels isthe 
"purifying order", 
the middle isthe 
"illuminating 
order", and the 
topmost is the 
"perfecting 
order". 


As God "des- 
cendedthrough 
the 3x3 divided 
angelic Orders to 
us humans, so 
should we rise 
through the same, 
ason Jacob's 
Ladder, to God". 
(A. Kircher, 
Musurgia Univer- 
salis) 


A. Kircher, 
Arithmologia, 
Rome, 1665 


Rotation: Wheel 






Wheel 


Angels set in mo- 
tion the sphere of 
fixed stars, which 
in turn drives all 
the other spheres. 

Miniature, France, 
I4th Century 





660 


Rotation: Wheel 


Wheel 



Apart from the 
image of the egg, 
according to 
Hildegard von Bin¬ 
gen the wheel is 
the symbol best 
suited to explain- 
ing the working of 
the macrocosmic 
plan. And like the 
world, the god- 
head is entirely 
round like a wheel, 
circling in its love. 
The outer, fiery 
layer of divine 
angerconsolidates 
the firmament, so 
that it does not 
flow away, the 
ethereal realm 
moves it, the re- 
gion of watery air 
moistens it, the 
animal-shaped 
winds keep it in 
circulation, and 
the lowermost 
layer of air awak- 
ensthegreen of 
the earth. This is 
represented here 
as thehubof the 
wheel of the world, 
criss-crossed by 
thespokes ofthe 
fourseasons and 
parts ofthe world. 

Hildegard von 
Bingen, Liber 
Divinorum Operum , 
I 3 th Century 


Rotation: Wheel 


661 




































Wheel 


Blake distinguished two kinds of machinery, representing two con- 
trasting expressions of time. Those that "revolve wheel within wheel 
in freedom, in harmony & peace" represent the Creative time of 
Eden, in which all the events of the cosmic year exist permanently (at 
the top of the illustration). Los, the inner alchemist, forges them and 
must contantly rise and fall in the plan of creation, "lest a moment be 
lost". 

The intertwined structures of Blake's poems are based on a view 
of the simultaneity of all events in space and time, diametrically 
opposed to Newton's world, simply and absolutely set in a place: 

" nebeneinander . Sounds solid: made by the mailet of Los demiurgos". 
(J. Joyce, Ulysses) The various levels or dimensions in which events 
occur in parallel are transparent and open up, often with surprising 
shifts of perspective, one into the other. 

The second machinery (at the bottom of the illustration), the 
"wheel to wheel which with their teeth, under force, set each other 
tyrannically in motion", represents the mechanical time of the 
industrial revolution: "Five, six: the Nacheinander". (J. Joyce, Ulysses) 
It consists of a vicious circle of twenty-seven errors set before the 
Creative present like a dulling filter. Böhme said one must "go from 
the illusion of historia into being", and for Paracelsus, too, time was 
a purely qualitative concept that cannot be broken down into meas- 
urable units. For Blake, the chief purpose of his work in the present, 
iron age of Mnemosyne, memory, was "to restore what the Ancients 
calTd the Golden Age". (AVision of the Last Judgment) 

In hermetic philosophy, eternity is to time as the centre is to the 
periphery, or Sun-gold to Saturn-Iead. The goal of the "Opus Mag- 
num" is the complete reversal of inside and outside, the rejuvenating 
return of old Chronos/Saturn to his original, paradisal state. Saturn 
also embodies sharpness of mind and analytical intelligence, and 
thus his reversal also means a transformation of thinking, for "think- 
ing is an excrescence of what has been, it is based entirely on the 
past (...) No human problem can be solved by thinking, since thinking 
itself is the problem. The end of knowledge is the beginning of wis- 
dom". (J. Krishnamurti, Ideal and Reality, Bern, igg2) 


662 


Rotation: Wheel 




Wheel 





r ZTctneJ&Zte+z&e\ iinatN/t, ou+: 
Tr'tJfxAet' ~~Cr£aZai ex‘er*jru)t , c. 
LUi <& (/,>}, *, ccirüjvta/u/ 


• f;l 

1 1 ?V 7W & 1 


ml V 'vtlr' V j 






The lower snake- 
cycle represents 
thescale of the 
twenty-seven 
eternal errors, into 
which the tran¬ 
sient individual 
imagines himself 
inthecourse of his 
earthly life. This 
cycle is divided 
into three large 
genealogical sec- 
tions: the first 
two, from Adam to 
Lamech and from 
NoahtoTerah, 
mark the barbaric 
stage of religion, 
with human sacri- 
fices and punish- 
ments; the final 
stage, which leads 
back tothe begin¬ 
ning, leads from 
Abraham via 
Moses and Con- 
stantine to Luther. 
It represents the 
discordant and 
militant condition 
ofthe state 
churches. 

W. Blake , 

Jerusalem , 
1804-1820 


Rotation: Wheel 


663 























Wheel 




Using the "mill-wheel of the seven 
virtues", in his "Buch der Heiligen 
Dreifaltigkeit", Ulmannus established the 
following relationships: 

"Sobrietas moderation is Saturnus lead, 
Castitas modesty is Jupiter tin, humilitas 
humility is Mars iron, pietas mildness is 
Venus copper, Sanctitas holiness is Mer- 
curius quicksilver, caritas charity is Luna 
silver, puritas purity is Sol gold." 

On the wheel, the planet-virtues are 
arranged in the precise sequence of the 


planet-hours "as they follow one another 
day by day, year in year out and determine 
the activity of the alchemist" (W. Ganzen¬ 
müller, Beiträge zur Geschichte der Tech¬ 
nologie und der Alchemie, Weinheim, 

■*956): Mars-Sun-Venus-Mercury-Moon- 
Saturn-Jupiter. Thus, every day of the 
week begins with the hour of the planet it 
is called after. Thus, for exmple, the third 
hour of Wednesday (Mercury) is the hour 
of Saturn, and it "rests in coagulation". 

Buch der Heiligen Dreifaltigkeit , 
early isth Century 


664 


Rotation: Wheel 


Wheel 






- Ikyczcuvt^jpuefiusfapicna 

v ufntB-yi xvzpu# 




#• 


“ tczvct 


YW- 



tnwMf <]v 

mim ^ 

(fv jina 



nUAiHPi 


•Alle öv\ faefafntt 
vmijh nvöt wkv 1 
dn&y'VY) fevwjtfc 


<dcvn& ; 

fcvtvuje eUmer ütjft 
öae ßutufü elemctö ) <ndcfi 


ln Ulmannus, the 
following key is 
assigned to the 
seven planet- 
metals in the 
sequence Mars- 
Venus-Saturn- 
Jupiter-Mercury- 
Luna-Sol: 


a 

b 

c 

d 

e 

f 

g 

h 

i 

k 

1 

m 

n 

0 

P 

q 

r 

s 

t 

V 

X 


It shows "the 
three degrees of 
all metals", their 
trinitary birth in 
body, soul and 
spirit. Jupiter, in 
the fourth place 
(with the combina- 
tion dis), isgiven a 
particular mean- 
ing, as in Böhme's 
System. In it the 
"twofoldtrinity" 
is divided into 
death and life, the 
inward world of 
light and the out¬ 
ward world of 
darkness. The 
virtue assigned 
to it, modesty, 
isthe precondition 
for the reception 
of the Mercurial 
Christ-Lapis. 

Buch der Heiligen 
Dreifaltigkeit , early 
iSth Century 


Rotation: Wheel 


665 






























Wheel 


Wheel 


"Onethe whole, 
the Point, the 
Center, the 
Circumference, 
and whatsoever 
istherein." 

The wheel of the 
seven source-spir- 
its, which shows 
the dynamic, basic 
structure of the 
process of nature, 
is an eternal in- 
and outfolding of 
the divine un- 
ground, thethree- 
in-one, miraculous 
eye of eternity. 
From the fourth, 
solar source-spirit, 
in which the dark 
and light qualities 
part, boththe 
flash of enlighten- 
ment and the 
visible four- 
elemental world 
arise. 

D.A. Freher, 
Paradoxa 

Emblemata , manu - 
script , i8th Century 




"If I should de- 
scribe to you the 
godhead (...) in 
the greatest 
depth, it is thus: as 
ifa wheel stood 
before you with 
seven wheels, one 
made into the 
other(...) Seven 
spirits of God. 

They are forever 
giving birth oneto 
another, and it is 
as if when one 
turned one wheel, 
there were seven 
wheels inside one 
another, and one 
aways turned dif- 
ferently from the 
others, and the 
seven wheels were 
rimmed one within 
another like a 
round sphere. And 
the seven hubs in 
the middle were 
like one hub which 
moved around all 
overthe place as it 
turned, and the 
wheels, forever 
giving birth tothe 
same hubs, and 
the hub forever 
giving birth to the 
spokes of all seven 
wheels." 

J. Böhme , 
Theosophische 
Wercke , 

Amsterdam , 7 682 


666 


Rotation: Wheel 


Rotation: Wheel 


667 









It is fmished 
when Seven are 
One." 

"The curse of God 
has entered the 
seven figures, so 
they are in conflict 
with one another." 
Just as the human 
will wastrans- 
formed "into eter- 
nal sun, calm in 
God", "so in the 
Philosophical 
Work must all 
figures betrans- 
formed into one, 
into Sol. From 
seven must come 
one, and yet it 
remains in seven, 
butinonedesire, 
as every figure 
desires the others 
in love, sothere 
is no longerany 
conflict". (Jacob 
Böhme, De signa- 
tura rerum) 

D.A. Freher , 
Paradoxa Emblem- 
ata , manuscript, 
i8th Century 



Rotation: Wheel 


Wheel 



"A and Q, the 
eternal beginning 
andtheeternal 
end, the first and 
last. Unground 
without time and 
space. Chaos. 
Mirror eye of eter- 
nity." (Freher) 

The unground 
leads itself in a 
spiral into a will, 
and this splits into 
thetwo spheres of 
love and wrath. 

D.A. Freher , 
Paradoxa Emblem - 
ata , manuscript , 
i8th Century 


Rotation: Wheel 


669 







Wheel 



"The birth of life winds as a wheel into it- 
self; and when it reaches the innermost 
point, it achieves freedom, not of God, 
but rather of the tincture from which life 
bums: for that which wishes to reach 
God must pass through fire; for no being 


reaches God unless it exists in fire, its own 
fire: If it were lit the world would melt. By 
this we do not mean the fire of the mon- 
ster, which is not fire but only harsh fury." 
(J. Böhme) 

J. Böhme, Dreyfaches Leben, 1682 edition 


670 


Rotation: Wheel 


Wheel 



John Bunyan, a lay preacher in an Engish 
Baptist community, wrote his edifying 
Puritan book, The Pilgrim's Progress, 
between 1667 and 1678 while he was im- 
prisoned for preaching without a licence. 
The book is one of the most widely trans- 
lated works in world literature. 

The spiral map of the journey shows all the 
stages that the Pilgrim Christian passes 
through on his journey from the City of 
Destruction to the Celestial City of 
Jerusalem. At first, he almost sinks in the 


Slough of Despond, in the Valley ofHumilia- 
tion he must fight with the heathen Apol- 
lyon. At VanityFair he is mocked, and later, 
with his companion Hopeful , he meets the 
giant Despair. In the vineyards and gardens 
of Beulah, the Land of Matrimony, the two 
are lovingly cared for before they must 
leave behind their "mortal garments" to 
cross the River of Death, for only in this 
way can they reach their goal, the Golden 
City of Jerusalem. 

From: Williams' edition of 'The Pilgrim's 
Progress', igth Century 


Rotation: Wheel 


671 



























Wheel 


Dee likened the origin of the planets to 
the metamorphosis of an egg made up of 
the four elements, which a scarab brings 
along a spiral path. At the end of the rota- 
tions, the white of the moon will have dis- 
appeared beneath the yolk of the sun. The 
"Small Work" of the moon includes Saturn 
in the first rotation, and in the second 
Jupiter, the "Great Work" of the sun in¬ 
cludes Mars and Venus. Mercury consists 
of both qualities. 

John Dee, Monas Hieroglyphica, Antwerp, 
7564 




The scarab, the holy "ball-roller" of the 
Egyptians, embodies the self-generating 
T-shaped, hermaphrodite principle of 
Sun-Osiris and Moon-Isis. Like the lapis, 
it originates out of putrefied matter in the 
form of a rotating ball of düng. The Egyp¬ 
tians held this to be a symbol of the rising 
sun, the 'aurora'. Both, the Ouroboros and 
the Scarab are an expression of the 'hen 
to pan', the eternal transformation of the 
Ever Unchanging. 

Johannes Macarius, Abraxas en Apistopistus, 
Antwerp, 1657 


672 


Rotation: Wheel 


Wheel 



Ide&Hiero^Iy 
Anim* mundt 


procefxum indi 


£c~rxb*i hierogjflpluM. 


A.Kircher, Oedipus 
Aegyptiacus, Rome, 
1652-1654 


Here, Kircher built on John Dee's idea that 
the planetary metals arose from the spiral 
paths of the hermaphrodite scarab, which 
represented the cosmic Spirit. On the left, 
lie the planets of its solar male half, on 
the right, those of the lunar female half. 
The picture of the double helix shows a 
reversal of internal and external which is 
supposed to occur in the course of the 
rotations in the Work. From its inner, invis- 
ible centre in the upper spiral the cosmic 


spirit scarab winds further and further into 
the physical periphery, to return from the 
outermost point of the earth: "For the 
centre is nothing but a (...) circumference 
wound around a "kleuel" (...). Just as the 
circumference (...) is an unwound centre 
extended entirely. Hence Hermes says: 

(...) That what is below is like that which 
is above (...)". (Julius Sperber, Isagoge, 
Deutsches Theatrum Chemicum, Nurem- 
berg, 1730) 


Rotation: Wheel 


673 



Wheel 


Alchemical wheel 
withthe seven- 
pointed starof 
the Chemical sub- 
stances, the 
square of the 
elements and the 
zodiac as theouter 
rim. In the Gnostic 
text of the Corpus 
Hermeticum, the 
zodiac iscalled a 
dark circle of 
twelve vices. This 
"wheel of anxiety 
of outward na- 
ture" is, according 
to Böhme, based 
onthe wheel- 
shaped "eternal 
nature of God". 

M. Maier , Viato- 
rium, Oppenheim , 
7678 



Ripley's wheel of "lower astronomy", 
contained in his famous 'Compound of 
Alchemy' (the twelve gates), must be 
rotated three times and pass three times 
through the matter of the alchemical 
zodiac, until the four elements have 
turned into the homogeneity of the tinc- 
ture or "medicine of the third Order". 

A Start should be made in the pale west 
(right), where the red man is conjoined 
with the white woman. Purgatory in the 


black, midnight north (bottom) is "the 
perfect medium of inward change". In the 
white east (left), the day-bright, full moon 
brings the beginnings of clarity, and when 
the sun is at its zenith in the red south at 
the first rotation, "your elementa have 
through circulatio become water" (George 
Ripley, Chymical Writings ); the second 
time they pass through, they are fixed, 
and the third time they are fermented and 
multiplied. 


674 


Rotation: Wheel 


Wheel 



Our kt-ovm. tku'ttßurt toilcl u 
Our ttdrlt olft oftkt Itrrutr JfbrtmemY 
“\Oflick vnAerjlooi (Kau rruxy nalmiße 
moJc* eur ittdi.ce n, f orjilly 
On tt ditrtjort Jit tky /h*dy 
Jind yntp (jod. lotk tu/fftt and day 




Ripley's wheel, 
in: Theatrum 
chemicum 
Britannicum, 1652 


The innermost circle of the diagram con- 
tains the words: When thou hast made the 
quadrangle round, then is all the secrete 
found". The quadrangle consists of the 
four outer circles with the chymical and 
•lemental qualities: 

1 reserved: cold and dry (West: Saturn, 
Earth) 

3 expelling: cold and moist (North: Mer- 
cury, Water) 


3. leaching: hot and moist (East: Jupiter, 
Air) 

4. attracting: hot and dry (South: Sun, 

Fi re) 

To these correspond the four stages of the 
raising of the Christ-Lapis 

1. incarnation 2. passion 3. resurrection 
4. ascension 


Rotation: Wheel 


675 



“Sol and Luna and 
Mars hunt with 
Jupiter/ Saturn 
must wearthe 
yarn / If Mercury 
sets tothe right 
with the wind / 
Venus' child is 
caught." This 
riddle describes 
the preparation 
of the universal 
medicine from 
copper vitriol, 
which Basil called 
the highest of 
all salts. Onthe 
outside it is green, 
but inside it is, 
from its father 
Mars, a fiery red, 
an oleous balm. 

"When Venus be- 
gins to rush, many 
hares does she 
make. So, Mars, 
ensure with your 
sword that Venus 
does not become a 
whore." 

The hare is a well- 
known Symbol of 
mercurial volatil- 

ity. 

Basil Valentine, 
Chymical writings, 
Hamburg, 1717 



676 


Rotation: 


Wheel 



“Death isthe Be- 
ginning of Life, 
and Life the Begin- 
ningof Death: Out 
ofa Center which 
is neither Dead nor 
Alive". 

“ What was seed 
becomes plant, 
what was plant be¬ 
comes grain, what 
was grain was (...) 
bread, from it am- 
niotic fluid, from it 
seed, from it em- 
bryo, from it man, 
from it corpse, 
from it earth, from 
it stone, and it can 
become all natural 
forms(...)Thus is 
matter, just as the 
substantial form 
of the things, the 
soul, is indestruct- 
ible (...): aptitude 
of all aptitudes, 
reality of all real- 
ities, life of all 
lives, essence of 
all essences.“ 

(G. Bruno, Cause, 
Principle and One, 
New York edition, 
1950) 

D.A.Freher, Para¬ 
doxa Emblemata, 
manuscript, 
i8th Century 


Rotation: Wheel 


677 






















Wheel 


The ninth key of Basil Valentine describes 
the brightly coloured phase in the Work, 
called the "peacock's tail". It occurs under 
the rule of Venus in the sign of Libra, and 
shows that the matter is gradually drying. 
The threefold Ouroboros refers to the tria 
prima and the three large sections of the 
Work. The whole figure is based on the 
glyph 5 of the antimonic prima materia. 

D. Stolcius von Stolcenberg, Viridarium 
chymicum, Frankfurt, 1624 



Breath and the vivifying spirit, the pneuma 
of the alchemist, set in motion the Great 
Work, which consists of the transforma- 
tions of body, soul and spirit. "All things 
are brought together and all things are 
dissolved again (...) for nature, turned 
towards itself, transforms itself." (Zosimo 
of Panopolis, 3 rd Century) 

Alchemistic manuscript, I7th Century 



678 


Rotation: Wheel 


Wheel 


<r J/uru /latt oj One yudd 

to t/iaA One a^ain, if tficru intenöl¬ 
est to- ist • cAA 


L 


MV ^ 

V ■ ' k X 

l ' yk/T ,i\ ) 

V > 


\* 'V 


Onfy & so cJotno cartjl ifiou Urt 
*aß>erpctuum 


"Give whatthou 
hast of the One 
back to the One" 
(Thomas Vaughan 
alias Philalethes, 
Magia Adamica, 
London, 1650)" 

"WhatThou hast 
of Oneyieldto 
that One again, if 
thou intendest to 
keep it. Only by so 
doing canstthou 
be a perpetuum 
Mobile." 

"See only the daily 
play of nature, 
its clouds and 
fogs, as an airy 
stage formed in a 
moment, returning 
totheearth's 
womb. Whenthe 
sun driesthem up, 
it can absorb 
everything drawn 
up into the clouds 
and fallen down 
to it, and, like the 
philosophical 
dragon, devour its 
own tail." 

(Thomas Vaughan, 
also known as 
Philalethes, Magia 
Adamica, London, 
1650) 

D.A. Freher, Para¬ 
doxa Emblemata, 
manuscript, 
i8th Century 


Rotation: Wheel 


679 







Wheel 


Wheel 


This alchemical wheel with a crank is sup- 
posed to have been the mark of the Danzig 
monk Koffskhi. 

Like Dee's Monas hieroglyph it is assem- 
bled from the various signs of the tria 
prima and the seven metais, on the basis of 
an inverted glyph of Mercury: "For quick- 
silver is a mother of all metais, and the Sun 
(...) it isalso Sulphur." 

Frater Vincentius Koffskhi, Hermetische 
Schriften (1478), Nuremberg edition, 1786 



The rotations 
should be repeat- 
ed "untilthe earth 
is heavenly and 
heaven is earthly 
and connected 
with the earth, 
then the Work is 
completed."(D. 
Mylius, Philosophia 
reformata, Frank¬ 
furt, 1622) 

Marcel Duchamp, 
Rotorreliefs, 1935 




Here Cadmus, the serpent-slayer who em- 
bodies the fixative properties of sulphur, 
is giving the philosophical colour-wheel its 
first rotation. Vulcan watches him attenti- 
vely from his threefold oven, for "the 
colours will teach you to rule fire" (Hein¬ 
rich Keil, Philosophisches Handbüchlein, 
Leipzig, 1736). The mercurial source mat¬ 
ter is shown as a chameleon with changing 
colours, the first phase of Saturn is black, 
Jupiter: ash-grey, the Moon: white, 

Venus, changes from bluish green to a 
pale red, Mars from reddish yellow to the 
bright colours of the peacock's tail, and 
the sun tends from pale yellow towards 
the deep purple of the red dawn. "The 


Circulatio of the Elements is effected by 
two kinds of wheel; a large and extended 
wheel, and a small or constricted wheel. 
The extended wheel fixes all the elements 
(through the sulphur) (...) The rotation of 
the small wheel is concluded with the ex- 
traction and preparation of every element. 
But in this wheel there are three circles 
which always drive the materials with 
unceasing and involved movements and 
in different ways (...) seven times at least." 
(Chymisches Lustgärtlein, Ludwigsburg, 
1744 ) 

Speculum veritatis, I7th Century 


680 


Rotation: Wheel 


Rotation: Wheel 


681 



Wheel 


D. Molinier , 
Alchemie de 
Flame!, 1772/73 



The idea of the colour-circle develops out of the figure of the 
Ouroboros, constructed in the emblems of Nicolas Flamel from the 
two self-consuming dragons of light and darkness. The former 
symbolizes the dry, sulphurous principle; the latter he called the 
"volatile black woman", mercurial moisture. 

According to Flamers theory, the sequence of colours in the 
Work arises out of the different levels of moisture in the matter. The 
deep black of cold wetness is followed by dark blue, light blue and 
yellow, in which the two extremes are in balance. After this comes 
the brightly coloured phase which ends in dry and hot, white-yellow. 
Through calcination this passes first to a yellow-red, and finally to 
the purple of the red lion, which rises above the zodiac orthe colour- 
circle. 

"But they (the alchemists) drew no conclusions from all these 
observations, and the theory of Chemical colours was not extended 
by it, as could and should have been the case", wrote Goethe in his 
History of Colour Theory. 


682 


Rotation: Wheel 



Wheel 


"(...) the red of dawn is at the middle be- 
tween day and night, which shines with 
two colours, namely red and citrin (yellow). 
Likewise, this art produces Citrine and Red 
Colour, the two in the middle are black 
and white." The red of dawn is "the end of 
the night, and a beginning of the day, and 
a mother of the sun. So the dawn at its 
greatest redness is an end of the whole 
darkness, and a banishment of night 


[Aurora consurgens) Purple is the indes- 
tructible sulphur, the fire of the lapis. 

In Goethe's colour theory, purple is the 
supreme intensification of all colours, and 
"no one who knows the prismatic origin 
of purple will think it paradoxical if we 
Claim that this colour (...) contains all other 
colours". 


Aurora consurgens, early ißth Century 


Rotation: Wheel 


683 
















Wheel 


Wheel 


The basis of the alchemical colour con- 
cepts on which Kircher, Goethe and 
Steiner built, is the Gnostic idea of the 
"brightly coloured texture of the worid", 
from the dawning of the divine light in the 
darkness of the lower waters. According 
to Basilides, a 2nd-century Alexandrian 
Gnostic, darkness once wished to mix with 
light, but light restricted itself to pure 
looking "as through a mirror. A reflection, 
then, that is a breath (color!) of light only, 
reached the darkness". (Werner Foerster, 
Die Gnosis: Zeugnisse der Kirchenväter , 
Zürich edition, iggs) Basilides likened the 
seed of the worid to a peacock's egg iaid 
in the sublunary sphere into the seven- 
ness of the colours. 


Paracelsus held Sulphur, the mediator 
between body and spirit, to be the ori¬ 
gin of the colours "probably because he 
was struck by the effect of acids on 
colour and colour phenomena, and acid 
is present to a high degree in common 
sulphur". (Goethe, Historyof Colour 
Theory) And of course salt also plays an 
important sole, having been considered 
"coagulated light", and the "ground of 
all physicality". According to Paracelsus, 
the salt of fire gave rise to the colours of 
the rainbow. "(...) and as you see a fire 
flaming up (in individual colours) when a 
salt is cast therein (...) the rainbow 
shares its colours (...) which it has taken 
from the power of the salt-spirit that lies 
in the element of Fire". (Paracelsus, De 
natura rerum, 1526) 



Colour wheel 
after R. Fludd, 
Medici na 
Catholica, 
Frankfurt , 162g 




The creation of colours from the two polar 
principles of sulphur and mercury, sun and 
moon, fire and water, light and darkness. 

Initium sapientiae est timor domini, 
manuscript, I7th Century 




the analogy between things and colours 


white 

yellow 

red 

blue 

black 

pure light 

toned light 

coloured light 

shadow 

darkness 

sweet 

medium sweet 

bitter sweet 

sour 

bitter 

fire 

air/ether 

atmosphere 

water 

earth 

God 

angel 

man 

animal 

plant 


In Kircher's Ars magna lucis et umbrae, 
according to Goethe, "it is clearly and 
thoroughly demonstrated for the first 
time that light, shade and colour are to be 
understood as the elements of seeing; 
even if the colours are represented as the 
monstrous births of the first two". 

(Colour Theory, 1810) 

His own colour theory had been kindled by 
the experiments of Newton, who had ar- 
rived at the conclusion that all colours are 
already potentially present in light, while 
for Kircher and Goethe they arose out of 
the mixture of light and darkness. For both 
of them, the phenomena of optics and 
colour theory were the expression of a 
universal bipolarity "like that handed 
down to us in the theory of magnetism, 
electricity and Chemistry". (Colour Theory, 
1810) 

A. Kircher, Ars magna lucis et umbrae, 1646 


684 


Rotation: Wheel 


Rotation: Wheel 


685 


WanM-ey,,, 


Wheel 


ln the beginning Newton's God "created 
matter in massive, solid, hard, impene- 
trable and moving particles (...) so that 
nature would be of constant duration." 
(Isaac Newton, Principia Mathematica , 
1686-1887). 

Even light, which was seen as the supreme 
manifestation of the divine in nature, con- 
sisted, in Newton's view, of a stream of 
these hard little spheres (globuli) and like 
the heavenly bodies these were also sub- 
ject to the general law of gravity, which he 
had developed around 1680. He was in- 
spired to do this by the first three natural 
qualities in Jacob Böhme's System: New¬ 
ton's centripetal force corresponds to the 
first attracting source-spirit of Böhme, the 
"contracting astringency", centrifugal 
force corresponds to "extending bitter- 
ness", and the rotation that arises from the 

IDEALES 


conflict between attraction and repulsion 
is "anxiety" orthe "birth-wheel of 
nature", the third source-spirit. And just 
as, in Newton's colour theory, white light, 
hitherto considered elemental, was now 
seen as composed from the seven colours 
of the spectrum, in the work of Böhme, 
too, light is seen as being born from all 
seven source-spirits at once. 

But Goethe, too, who was suspicious of 
Newton because of the 'mystical' number 
seven, was able to find much that he 
needed in Böhme's rieh trove of visionary, 
natural mystical concepts, concerning 
both the 'sensual and moral effect of 
colours' and its origins from the polarities. 
For Böhme, white is the only colour that 
lies not in the 'mystery of nature', but 
in the deity. It is "the son of God" who 
"shines into the sea of nature" (Jacob 
Böhme, Aurora), and 
black is the cabbalistic 
En-Soph, the divine 
non-being underlying 
the diversity of all phe- 
nomena. 



"Many things can be 
schematized in the 
triangle, as can the 
colour phenomena, 
in such a way that 
through doubling and 
limitation one arrives 
at the old, mysterious 
hexagon." (Goethe, 
Colour Theory, 1810) 

From: P. 0 . Runge, 
Posthumous writings, 
1810 


saivaa 


686 


Rotation: Wheel 



eternal nature 
(bottom)." The 
celestial majesty 
of the divine son 
Stands in the head 
of the lower nat¬ 
ural world in the 
image of thetor- 
tured Jesus as the 
mocked king of 
the Jews. From the 
'Centrum Naturae', 
the salnitric cross- 
ground, there 
emerges in various 
degrees of the 
mixture of fire and 
water the mystery 
of colours. 

1. Blue: entity 

2. Red: father in 
the brilliance of 
fire 

3. Green: life 

4. Yellow; son 

5. White: bril¬ 
liance of God's 
majesty as a quint- 
essence. 


J. Böhme , 

Theosophische 

Wercke, 

Amsterdam, 1682 


Rotation: Wheel 


687 










Wheel 


Influenced by 
Jacob Böhme's 
writings, which 
the writer Ludwig 
Tieck had recom- 
mended to him in 
1801, P.O. Runge 
begantodevelop 
his own mystical 
colourtheory, 
which he applied 
in all his painting. 
He assignedthe 
three basic colours 
tothe divinetrin- 
ity: blue - Godthe 
father, red - son 
and yellow - holy 
spirit. 

The source of the 
three-dimensional 
arrangement of 
the colours on the 
sphere lay in the 
main colours being 
complemented by 
the two poles of 
light and darkness 
to form the quin- 
ticity of the pure 
elements. 



688 Rotation: Wheel 


Wheel 



Goethe tried to 
connect the qual- 
ities of colours as 
experienced by 
the senses with 
ethical categories. 
Here he assigns 
the four spiritual 
capacities of man 
tothe six colours 
of his circle: tothe 
plus orday-sideof 
the warm colours 
he attributes 
reason and intelli- 
gence, to the 
minus ornight- 
side of the cold 
colours sensuality 
and imagination. 


Onthis "rose of 
the humours", 
a collaboration 
between Goethe 
and Schiller in 
1799. the four 
humours of man 
are assigned to 
Goethe's colour 
circle. 


Rotation: Wheel 


689 

















Rose 


Rose 



"The cross Stands wound densely round 
with roses./ Who has put roses on the 
cross?/ (...) And from the middle springs 
a holy life/ Of threefold rays from a single 
point (...)." (Goethe, Die Geheimnisse, 
1784-1786) 

In alchemy, the white and the red rose are 
well-known Symbols for the lunar and the 
solar tincture, from which the "precious 
rose-coloured blood" of Christ-Lapis 
flows. And the Shehina, the brilliance of 
celestial wisdom on earth, is understood 
in the image of the rose, and "the Collec¬ 


tion of honey" Stands for the common 
inheritance of theosophical knowledge. 
"Thus the whole parable of the Song of 
Solomon finally refers to the object of our 
rose-cross (...): 'I am the rose of Sharon 
and the lily of the field'". As regards "the 
correct procedure for attaining the rose¬ 
red blood of the cross that is poured (as 
quintessence) in the centre of the cross", 
Fludd used the image of wisdom: the work 
of the architect as a labourer of God on 
the building of the temple 

R. Fludd, Summum Bonum, Frankfurt, 162g 



I make honey 

The death of the cross was accursed 

In the view of God 

Now it is entirely lovely 

Through the judgement of Christ's death. 

Daniel Cramer, Emblemata Sacra, 1617 



The name and emblem of the Rosicrucian 
brotherhood refer to Martin Luther's coat 
of arms. The "General Reformation" that 
it had proclaimed at the beginning of the 
I7th Century was a revival of Protestantism 
- which had sunk into orthodoxy - through 
the spirit of Paracelsian nature mysticism. 
One declared goal was the struggle 
against the "tyranny of the Pope", which a 
few years previously had burned Giordano 
Bruno atthe stäke. 

Van der Heyden, detail, from: Sigillum 
Lutheri, Strasbourg, 1617 


690 


Rotation: Rose 


Rotation: Rose 


691 






W. Blake , The Cates 
ofParadise, 1793 


How sweet I roamed from field to field. 
And tasted all the summer's pride, 

Till I the prince of love beheld 
Who in the sunny beams did glide. 


With sweet May-dews my wings were wet, 
And Phoebus fired my vocal rage; 

He caught me in his Silken net. 

And shut me in his golden cage. 


He showed me lilies for my hair, (William Blake, 1769-78) 

And blushing roses for my brow; 

He led me through his gardens fair, 

Where all his golden pleasures grow. 


692 


Rotation: Pilgrim 












Pilgrim 


Pilgrim 


The evening betöre 
Easteran angel 
gives the legend- 
ary founder of 
the Rosicrucian 
Order, Christian 
Rosencreutz, an 
invitationto the 
mystical wedding 
of bride and 
bridegroom. With 
a blood-red sash 
hung across his 
white apron, and 
with tour red roses 
on his hat, he sets 
off the following 
day. 

In Andreae's unin- 
spired and over- 
loaded Baroque 
allegory the al- 
chemical symbol- 
ism appears only 
as a rathertired 
backdrop. In our 
own time, Rudolf 
Steiner and the 
modern Rosicru¬ 
cian associations 
have subjected the 
Work to a number 
of thorough and 
serious interpreta- 
tions. 

Johann Valentin 
Andrea , Die 
Alchemische 
Hochzeit von Chris¬ 
tian Rosen kreuz 
(1616), Ed. J. van 
Rijckenborgh , 7967 








"Are we not all, here below, on a pilgrim- 
age to the land where our saviour Christ 
has gone betöre us? (...) Great Phoebus 
himself, the God of the Sun, travels across 
the broad sky day after day. The heart of 
man beats and pulses in his breast from 
the first hourof lifeto the last (...) The 
trader crosses land and water to buy pro- 
duce from the most far-off lands; but 
more worthy goods by far are knowledge 
and Science. They are the goods of the 
spirit. (...) For all these reasons I had the 


idea that it would be both interesting, 
pleasant, worthy and also extraordinarily 
profitable for me to follow the example of 
the whole world and undertake a pilgrim- 
age with the goal of discovering that won- 
derful bird the Phoenix (Lapis)." (Michael 
Maier, "Secreta Chymiae, Die Geheimnisse 
der Alchemie", in: Musaeum Hermeticum, 
Frankfurt, 1678) 

Salomon Trismosin, Aureum vellus , 

Hamburg , 1708 


694 


Rotation: Pilgrim 


Rotation: Pilgrim 


695 










Pilgrim 


Pilgrim's dream: 

"I dreamed, and 
behold, I saw a 
man clothed with 
rags, Standing in a 
certain place, with 
his face turned 
away from his own 
house, a book in 
his hand, and a 
great bürden upon 
his back." A man 
called Evangelist 
meets him and ad- 
viseshimto flee 
"the wrath to 
come". "Do you 
see yonder narrow 
gate?" The man 
said, "No". (...) 
"Do you see yon¬ 
der shining light? 
(...) Keepthat light 
inyoureye, andgo 
up directly 
thereto: so shalt 
thou see the gate; 
at which, when 
thou knockest, it 
shall be toldthee 
whatthou shalt 
do". (John Bunyan, 
The Pilgrim's 
Progress , 1678) 

W. Blake , Illustra¬ 
tion to Pilgrim's 
Progress , 
1824-1827 



696 


Rotation: Pilgrim 


Pilgrim 





pe/tysf i, 




' 




mmm® 


"The Door of Death is made of Gold, that Immortal Eyes cannot behold." 


Blake developed a 
special process of 
relief etching, 
transferring his 
drawings and 
texts tothe cop- 
per plates with an 
acidic fluid and 
corroding away 
the spaces with ni- 
tric acid. This 
process enabled 
him, as in this illus- 
tration, to com- 
bine black-lined 
contours with 
white-lined hatch- 
ing. (Discussed in 
greater detail in: 
D.W. Dörrbecker, 
Konvention und In¬ 
novation, Berlin, 
1992). This reversal 
of gravureinto 
relief printing 
is constantly 
reflected in his 
poetry: the gaps 
arethe "tempor- 
ary individual 
States" that disap- 
pear in the pur¬ 
ging fires of the 
Last Judgment. 
What remains 
arethe "eternal 
lineaments", the 
"signatures of all 
things". 

W. Blake , Death 's 
Door , c. 1806/07 


Rotation: Pilgrim 


697 












691 



The soul of the 
Christian pilgrim is 
guided by the 
word of God: 


"O that my paths 
may be guided/ to 
keepThy laws 
(Psalm 118, 5)/ In 
thetangled maze/ 
With all itstwists 
and turns/ I walk 
and will without 
fear await/The 
help promised by 
Thy Word./ From 
faraway I seethat 
here and there 
some will fall/ 

Who are otherwise 
cautious enough 
and probablythe 
boldest:/ I go 
blindly onwards 
and my arts are all 
in my devotion to 
Thee my friend!/ 
(...)This life is a 
maze;/That the 
journey may be 
safe/Thou must 
without guile wait 
in blind faithfor 
God/ In pure love 
without artifice." 


Hermann Hugo, 
Gottselige 
Begierde, 
Augsburg, 1622 


Rotation: Pilgrim 




















Pilgrim 


St James was the 
patron saint of 
physicians and al- 
chemists. Accord- 
ingtothe 'Le- 
genda aurea', in 
Spain he defeated 
"Hermogenes" 
or "Hermes 
Trismegistus" 
and was therefore 
in Charge of his 
secret knowledge. 

The route to his 
grave in Santiago 
de Compostela 
was seen as the 
earthly projection 
of the Milky Way, 
"the road to St 
lago", the Symbol 
of the Mercurial 
Work. "Narrow 
and slippery isthe 
way," as one Ger¬ 
man hymn to St. 
James from 1553 
has it, "surround- 
ed by waterand 
fire". Butthe 
Hermetic pilgrims 
were notonly in 
search of religious 
edification; they 
were also eagerto 
encounter Jewish 
and Arab secret 
knowledge that 
begantospread 
into Christian Eu- 
rope from Spain in 
the I 2 th Century. 

Stephan Praun's 
pilgrim's costume , 
1571 



700 


Rotation: Pilgrim 


Pilgrim 



"ln secret symbolism, the 'Compostela and set off for Santiago. "That is the point 

scallop' (coquille St. Jacques) (...) repres- at which all alchemists must begin. With 

ents the principle of Mercury, which is still their pilgrim's staff as a guide and the 

called the 'traveller' or the 'pilgrim'. In the scallop as a sign, they must undertake this 

mystical sense it is worn by all those (...) long and dangerous journey, half on water, 

who try to obtain the star (Lat. compos: half on land. First as pilgrims, then as 

possessing, stella: star)." pilots." (Fulcanelli/Canseliet, Le Mystere 

des Cathedrales, Paris, 1925, ig64edition) 

In order to decipher his mysterious bark 

codex in the early isth Century, Nicolas Joseph Beuys, Palazzo Regale , ig8s 

Flamel called upon the support of St James 


Rotation: Pilgrim 


701 


"Let us leave 
theories there and 
return to here's 
hear." (J. Joyce, 
Finnegans Wake) 

Marcel Duchamp , 
Door as a substitute 
for two doors, 

Paris , 7927 
















Solvtio Perfecta 


9 783822 815144 


A fantastical journey through the pictorial world 
of alchemy and mysticism, the Cabbala and magic, 
freemasons and Rosicrucians. This unique selection 
of illustrations with commentaries and source 
texts guides us on a fascinating journey through 
the representations of the secret arts. 


www.taschen.com 


















